 

To Loose the Fateful Lightning

Original Airdate: 16 Oct, 2000

           Those who fail to learn history are doomed to repeat it;
                  Those who fail to learn history correctly -
                          Why they are simply doomed

                                 Achem Dro'hm
                        The Illusion of Historical Fact
                                    CY 4971

      [Command]

      HUNT: It's called GS92196. It's a Guard station for starship
      service and repair. A real jewel in the Commonwealth crown.
      TYR: Perhaps once, nut it's probably long gone by now.
      BEKA: The station's in easy striking distance of the Dyhedra
      system.
      HUNT: The last time I checked, the scariest thing about Dyhedra was
      the size of the bills at the resort hotels.
      HARPER: Yeah, well, those hotels may still be serving lunch, but
      we'd be the main course.
      BEKA: The entire system is infested with Magog. Everyone knows
      that. Almost everyone.
      TYR: The ship's weaponry is severely depleted. We couldn't return
      fire on a single Magog probe, much less a full assault horde.
      ROMMIE: All the more reason to check out the Guard station. If it
      is still operational, we could stock up on slipfighters, drones,
      spare parts.
      HUNT: Look, I grant you it's a long shot, but maybe we'll get
      lucky.
      (Andromeda moves to within range of the Guard station.)
      TYR: Those are Magog assault ships.
      HUNT: This is the Commonwealth Starship Andromeda hailing Guard
      station niner two one niner six. Please respond. Guard station, are
      you reading me?
      BEKA: Whoever's on that drift probably can't even breathe, let
      alone signal back.
      TYR: Nietzschean slavers have been here, too.
      HARPER: What a popular destination. It must be on all the tourist
      maps.
      ROMMIE: It looks like the station's still pressurised. The
      atmosphere is breathable and the AG fields are powered and running.
      HUNT: Any life signs?
      ROMMIE: There seem to be indications of habitation near the
      generator complex, but scans are inconclusive.
      HUNT: Prepare for docking.
      (Andromeda's prow slips neatly into a v-shaped section of the
      station.)

      [Armoury]

      (Hunt hands out forcelances to Harper and Beka.)
      HUNT: We don't know what we're going to get, so let's put on our
      game faces. Maybe some of our faces are a little too game. Tyr, Rev
      Bem, you'd better stay behind.
      TYR: We're the best battle gear you've got.
      BEM: No offence, Harper.
      HARPER: Oh, none taken. In fact, I am so unoffended, allow me to
      present you with the gifts of forcelance and a gauss gun.
      HUNT: Sorry, Harper, but if anyone's down there, they've certainly
      scrapped with Magog and Nietschzseans.
      HARPER: Well, maybe they hate humans, too.
      HUNT: I doubt it. They haven't even met you yet. 

      [Guard station corridor]

      (Forcelances make handy torchs.)
      HUNT: Keep an eye out for the Quartermaster's office. And stay
      alert. We're short-handed enough as it is.
      HARPER: Battle damage. It's fresh.
      HUNT: A Magog.
      HARPER: Don't touch it! It's venom! I heard about a guy touched a
      fresh kill. Three days later, his guts were teeming with Magog
      eggs.
      HUNT: You can't get infected from a dead Magog. That's a myth.
      HARPER: I prefer to think of it as a cautionary tale.
      (Someone shoots at them. They hide behind crates.)
      BEKA: Gee, I'm glad we left Rev and Tyr behind. I'd hate to tick
      off the locals.
      HUNT: They must think we're more Magog/
      BEKA: Or they're more Magog.
      HUNT: This is Dylan Hunt, Commander of the High Guard Starship
      Andromeda! We come in peace.
      (The shooting stops.)
      BEKA: They've stopped shooting.
      HARPER: Yeah, they've probably gone to get bigger guns.
      CHILDREN: Hail the High Guard! Hail the High Guard! Hail the High
      Guard! Hail the High Guard! Hail the High Guard! Hail the High
      Guard! Hail the High Guard! Hail the High Guard! Hail the High
      Guard! High Guard! High Guard!
      (Some small children come forward to investigate Hunt, while young
      woman in uniform, who looks very tired and ill, speaks.)
      KATE: Is it really you?
      HUNT: I'm Captain Dylan Hunt.
      KATE: High Guard?
      HUNT: I'm a High Guard officer, yes.
      KATE: I never thought I'd live to see the coming of the High Guard.
      I am G Stat Comm Kate Nassan at your service, High Guard.
      (She salutes, and coughs.)
      HUNT: Are you all right?
      KATE: I am old. Don't worry about me.
      BEKA: She couldn't be more than twenty.
      HUNT: Where are the adults?
      KATE: We're right here.
      HUNT: No, I mean the people my age.
      KATE: High Guard, no one's as old as you.
      HUNT: So, you're the oldest one here, and you're in charge.
      KATE: For now. When I die, my Onced-Off Hayak will assume command.
      (A young man in steps forward and salutes.)
      HAYAK: I led the victory this morning. We drove off a Magog
      assault.
      KATE: When Hayak dies in a couple years, my brother Mapes will lead
      our people.
      BEKA: He's gotta be sixteen. Look at the peach fuzz.
      KATE: Well, come on. Enough talk. The High Guard is with us. We
      should be celebrating!
      (The children cheer, and start their High Guard chant again.)

      [Meeting area]

      (A multi-storey area lit by fires. Children line the galleries and
      look down on the open space.)
      KATE: High Guard, we've prepared the Mish Brief. Shall we transmit?
      HUNT: By all means.
      KATE: Onced-Off, tell the tale!
      CHILDREN: Tell the tale! Tell the tale!
      HAYAK: Sit. You'll enjoy this. Begin Mish Brief. Transmit. During
      the fall of the Commonwealth, many of the Guard Station's original
      crew were killed, wiped out, leaving only us, their children and
      their children's children. Generation after generation.
      (Harper pulls his gun on what he believes is a Magog, but is really
      part of the play the children are putting on as the mission
      briefing.)
      HARPER: Whoa!
      KATE: Don't worry, it's just a costume.
      HAYAK: Ever since then, Magog and Nietzscheans have plagued us. Our
      people have fought off attack wave after attack wave. Friends die.
      Family members get killed. But we always survive to fight out next
      enemy because we're Commonwealth. We're Stationeers. We have
      survived, and we've waited for the Day of Lightning. And now that
      day has come.
      (A boy walks towards Hunt with a model of Andromeda on the end of a
      pole.)
      CHILDREN: High Guard! High Guard! High Guard! High Guard!
      HAYAK: End transmit.
      (The children all sit down.)
      HUNT: That was, er, very nice.
      KATE: Bring the offering.
      (A little girl pours a collection of bones into Hunt's hand.)
      KATE: It's her gift to you, High Guard.
      HUNT: What are they?
      HAYAK: Cheek-horns she carved out of a Magog.
      (They bring forward a box full of them.)
      KATE: We collected these for three hundred years, and now they're
      yours.

      [Command]

      (Bem takes a clawful of the teeth from the box.)
      BEM: These children desperately need spiritual guidance.
      (Tyr has found a bone blade like the ones sticking out from his own
      forearms.)
      TYR: It would seem that they're doing just fine without it.
      BEKA: Yeah, well, these kids are very in touch with their inner
      savage.
      HUNT: You have to admire them. Everything they've created here,
      they've done on their own. No one's helped them.
      HARPER: Yeah, maybe. But they could use a little help. I thought
      Triangulum Measles was bad. You hear Nassan's cough?
      HUNT: It's probably some kind of radiation poisoning. Beka, find
      out where the leak's coming from. And you, scavenger hunt. Find out
      what they've got that's useful. Maybe we can barter.
      TYR: Perhaps they've be interested in some training. Improve their
      tactics against their enemies.
      BEM: With guidance, they can overcome their enemies from within.
      BEKA: Er, hello? These kids take one look at you two and you'd be
      sliced, diced, and packed in a crate number five hundred and twenty
      seven.
      HUNT: Beka's right. Undoing three hundred years of hatred and fear
      will take time.
      (Trance enters.)
      HUNT: But I think I know how to start.
      TRANCE: Why are you smiling at me?

      [Meeting area]

      (The children don't have a positive response to novelty.)
      BOY: What is that?
      BOY 2: Shoot it.
      BOY 3: I've never seen someone like her before.
      HUNT: No, no, no, no, no, no. This is Trance Gemini. She's a good
      friend of mine.
      HAYAK: It's purple.
      HUNT: The Commonwealth was an alliance of many types of beings, not
      just humans.
      HAYAK: There's nothing about purple things in the scripture.
      TRANCE: And what scripture is that?
      KATE: The scripture. All that's contained in the Room of Knowledge.
      HUNT: Maybe you can show me that room, but first I want you to get
      to know Trance.
      TRANCE: I promise I don't bite.
      (Mapes strokes Trance's hair.)
      MAPES: You're pretty.

      [Room of Knowledge]

      KATE: This is the Room of Knowledge.
      (Rows of filing cabinets with Nietzschean skulls lined up on top.
      Harper opens one drawer.)
      HUNT: High Guard blue prints and procedure manuals stored on
      flexis.
      HARPER: Oh, man, I'm dreaming. You know what this is?
      KATE: That one's about the ship made flesh. But why am I telling
      that to the High Guard when you know everything here by heart, like
      I do.
      HARPER: Hey, look, if you don't mind, I'm gonna borrow this for a
      little while, and see what else I can scrounge.
      (Harper leaves with the flexi.)
      HUNT: Nassan, there's no way you could've memorised all this.
      KATE: But I have, High Guard. It's my duty. And I have to make sure
      Hayak knows it, too, before I die.
      HUNT: All right.
      (He takes a flexi at random.)
      HUNT: Er, frequency switching must occur how many times a second to
      avoid external sensor jamming?
      KATE: That's not what that says. That volume's about the Free Can
      See Witches. Our people must remain free in order to recognise the
      enemy. For fifteen generations now, every G Stat Comm's known that.
      HUNT: That's not exactly what it says. Look. Read right here.
      KATE: I can't read.

      [Cargo hold]

      (Harper wheels in a trolley loaded with boxes.)
      HARPER: All hail the conquering hero.
      ROMMIE: Have fun looting?
      HARPER: You know it, baby. I scored you an entire crate of
      quintiflop logic chips.
      ROMMIE: That's quite a bonanza.
      HARPER: Hey, you ain't seen nothing yet.
      (A crate of beer.)
      HARPER: Three hundred year old Neuverin Weisbrau. (drinks) Ah. God
      is good. You want some? I could pour it into a spectral analyser or
      something.
      ROMMIE: Thanks, but I prefer the logic chips.
      HARPER: I can fix that.

      [Command]

      BEKA: I've tracked the radiation to this area on level nineteen,
      but they say it can only be entered by the High Guard, using the
      words of the past.
      HUNT: Words of the past? Passwords.
      BEKA: Well, whatever it is, you've got to say it if we're gonna get
      in there and find that rad-leak.
      HUNT: Did they say what they were using this room for?
      BEKA: Some mumbo-jumbo about a noble shrine.
      HUNT: If this were a standard GS, it would probably be a dry dock
      facility, but you've seen the place. Kids are living in the machine
      shop, growing food in the armoury
      BEKA: Playing basketball in the hydroponics garden.
      HUNT: There's nothing wrong with that. Any idea what's causing the
      radiation?
      BEKA: It could be a million different things. A leaky AP valve, a
      cracked mag-bottle.
      HUNT: You're right, it could be anything. But whatever it is, it's
      robbing these kids of their full lives and we've got to get it off
      the station.
      (Meanwhile, Harper is getting busy in the machine shop.)

      [Outside the Noble Shrine]

      BEKA: Here it is.
      KATE: High Guard, this is the moment. The one every generation's
      waited for and dreamed about.
      HUNT: I understand you need a password. The words of the past.
      KATE: Exactly as you said.
      HUNT: My High Guard access code generally does the trick.
      (Hunt puts his palm on a scanner.)
      HUNT: Commonwealth Captain Dylan Hunt, access code lexic dark five
      two two seven eight alpha seven seven one.
      COMPUTER: Checking. Authorised.
      (The door opens and the children cheer.)
      GIRL: It's the Day of Lightning!

      [Noble Shrine]

      (It is a bay full of Slipfighters.)
      HUNT: Beautiful. Type two arc glide Slipfighters.
      KATE: Hayak and Mapes, as you've practiced.
      (Hayak and Mapes run to a pair on consoles on the catwalk behind
      and take key cards from round their necks.)
      HAYAK + MAPES: Alert status five. Arm all systems.
      HUNT: Wait!
      HAYAK + MAPES: Combat readiness factor five five nine one.
      (They put their key cards into the consoles.)
      HUNT: That radiation. It's from voltarium, isn't it.
      BEKA: It's consistent with voltarium, yeah.
      HUNT: Do those slipfighters carry Nova Bombs?
      KATE: You mean Noble bombs. Of course. And now they're ready to
      destroy our enemies.
      CHILDREN}: Victory! Victory! Victory! Victory!

      [Command]

      HUNT: Those children now have the ability to destroy two dozen
      solar systems, and I gave it to them.
      BEM: Do not blame yourself. You could not know there were Nova
      weapons in a docking bay.
      HUNT: The last adult commander must've rigged the slipfighters, and
      before he died he told the kids, wait for the High Guard to return
      with the password.
      BEM: Their interpretations have been wrong, but Dylan, their hearts
      are good.
      TYR: With those bombs, you could have your Commonwealth today.
      HUNT: If I use Nova Bombs, I wouldn't be restoring civilisation,
      I'd be founding an empire.
      TYR: If you don't want to get your hands dirty, I know people who
      would pay dearly for those things. We'd all be as rich as the King
      of Nightsiders.
      HUNT: I won't buy my Commonwealth, either. If it's to mean
      anything, people have to join voluntarily and with full knowledge.
      TYR: Even children?
      HUNT: Even children.

      [Meeting area]

      HUNT: I have a vision. A great vision of a restored Commonwealth.
      (Hayak leads a chant of victory, victory.)
      HUNT: The victory, the victory is over ourselves. It's over the
      darkness in each of us which compels us to fight enemies. We need
      to move forward together, looking for the day when true victory
      means we have no more enemies.
      HAYAK: Death to the enemies!
      HUNT: No, no. I mean, death to the enemies inside ourselves.
      Together, you and I, we can bring unity over revenge, peace over
      war, civilisation over barbarism.
      HAYAK: High Guard, if you want peace, then bless these holy
      warriors.
      (Mapes and another older boy kneel before Hunt.)
      HUNT: Right. The High Guard er, blesses you, Mapes, and you
      HAYAK: Gando.
      HUNT: Gando. Bring us peace.
      (The High Guard chant starts up again.)

      [Medical]

      HUNT: I hope you had more luck treating Nassan than I did in
      teaching those kids.
      TRANCE: Dylan, her condition's incurable. She has a couple months
      to live at best.
      HUNT: What about the others?
      TRANCE: Well, the older ones, like Hayak, won't make it either, but
      Mapes, his generation and anyone younger, I think we can save. I'll
      just have to inject the nanobots to repair the genetic damage, but
      we are going to have to get rid of that voltarium.
      HUNT: Inject the nanobots. I'll take care of the bombs.

      [Room of Knowledge]

      TYR: (sotto) I'm in the station. Heading for the fighter deck now.
      (Harper is still working on his mysterious something, and smiling.)

      [Kate's quarters]

      (Kate is in bed, coughing.)
      HUNT: Nassan? I need to talk to you.
      KATE: Yes?
      HUNT: All the information you have, everything is based on what you
      were told by the previous G Stat Comm, right?
      KATE: Yes.
      HUNT: And everything the kids know is based on what you tell them.
      Tell them that peace is the way.
      KATE: They know that already. You'll kill our enemies, and then
      we'll have peace.
      HUNT: That's not what I'm talking about. It's
      (There's a new noise, then Hayak enters.)
      HAYAK: Thank you, High Guard. The Day of Lightning is beginning.
      HUNT: The Day of Lightning?
      HAYAK: Our two Holy Warriors are on their way to fill the Dyhedra
      System with Magog blood.
      HUNT: Who authorised that?
      HAYAK: You did, High Guard, When you blessed Gando and Mapes to
      carry the Noble Bombs.
      HUNT: Nova bombs. They're Nova bombs!
      (Two Slipfighters launch.)

      [Command]

      HUNT: Beka, report to the Station. Help Tyr. Andromeda, prepare for
      launch.
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Yes, sir.
      HUNT: Rev, Trance, Harper

      [Eureka Maru]

      HUNT [OC]: Command.
      HARPER: I'm busy.

      [Command]

      HUNT: Now!

      [Eureka Maru]

      HUNT [OC]: Get up here.

      [Command]

      (Harper obeys as Andromeda does a backward flip and leaves the
      Station. The slipfighters enter slipstream.)
      HUNT: Engaging slipstream now. Andromeda?
      ROMMIE: The slipfighters have cut all communications. They're not
      responding to hails.
      BEM: They have a twenty minute head start. It's going to be
      difficult catching them.
      HUNT: I'm banking we're better pilots.
      ROMMIE: We'd better be. If just one of those slipfighters reaches
      the Dyhedra sun, it'll destroy the entire solar system.
      (Harper enters.)
      HARPER: Acting Apostle Harper reporting for duty.
      HUNT: Man the First Officer's station. Configure for fire control.
      HARPER: Wait a minute, isn't that Tyr's job?
      HUNT: Improvise.
      HARPER: Where's Tyr?
      TRANCE: It's a secret.
      HUNT: Prepare harpoons. We've got to intercept them.
      (They leave slipstream at a binary system.)
      BEM: We can only retrieve one ship at a time. Which one, right or
      left?
      HUNT: Right.
      TRANCE: Left!
      TRANCE: Er, it's just a choice. You know, fifty fifty?
      HUNT: You heard the lady. Move to intercept. Maybe that'll
      discourage the other one.
      HARPER: Harpoons ready.
      BEM: First target ship in range.
      HUNT: Fire.
      (An impossibly long cable whizzes out and grabs onto the first
      slipfighter.)
      HUNT: Got him. Trance, go see to the pilot. Andromeda, move in on
      target two.
      HARPER: He's going too fast. We're losing him!
      ROMMIE: He's almost reached the sun.
      HUNT: Can we destroy his ship?
      ROMMIE: Our missiles'll never catch him in time. The system is
      doomed, and if we're not careful, the chain reaction will destroy
      us as well.
      HUNT: We have to try. Continue pursuit.
      HARPER: We are not gonna make it.
      ROMMIE: He's still out of range. We have to turn around.
      BEM: Seven seconds to impact.
      HUNT: Andromeda, hard one eighty now. Maximum delta field.
      (Andromeda does her back flip.)
      BEM: Three seconds, two, one.
      (KaBOOM! Flash!)
      HUNT: Engage slipstream now!
      (They escape.)
      HUNT: Andromeda, is there any chance anyone survived the Nova?
      ROMMIE: I'm sorry, Dylan. All the inhabited planets were
      incinerated.
      BEM: So many lives.
      HUNT: A whole solar system of your people, gone.

      [Hangar bay]

      (Andromeda docks with the Guard Station.)
      MAPES: Why did you stop me?
      TRANCE: You're welcome.

      [Corridor]

      BEKA: Okay, so Tyr has most of the equipment in place. We just need
      your help for a couple seconds.
      HARPER: Fine, fine. I'll help you sabotage the kids' Slipfighters.
      But personally? The kids are not the problem.
      BEKA: They committed genocide, that's the problem.
      HARPER: Yeah, not when it's justified.
      BEKA: There's no justification for genocide.
      HARPER: Tell that to the Magog.
      BEKA: Harper, I didn't grow up on Earth, but I understand how you
      must
      HARPER: No, you don't. Listen, I had two cousins, Declan and
      Siobhan. They were twins, actually, about my age. We grew up
      together, you know? We used to share between us whatever little
      scraps we could find. And then the Magog came. And these Magog
      didn't have the courtesy to just kill and eat my cousins. No, my
      cousins were left alive, paralyzed, to host little Magog eggs that
      fed on their insides and grew until my family had two choices.
      Either kill my own cousins, or wait for the Magog to hatch and kill
      us. So, you know what? I say, good on them! Good on these kids.

      [Meeting area]

      HAYAK: The Magog of Dyhedra, gone. Their planets, gone. Their solar
      system, gone. Their killing, murdering ways, gone. Forever! Soon,
      the High Guard will return to bless more of our holy warriors and
      to bring more peace to our enemies. Peace to the Neitzcheans of
      Centauris A! Peace to the Magog of Albadar! Peace to the slavers of
      Zoran Drift! Peace to all our enemies!
      (The children cheer.)

      [Kate's quarters]

      KATE: High Guard, you really are here. I was afraid I was dreaming.
      HUNT: I know all about dreams. I want to share mine. It's about
      peace.
      KATE: Yes, peace. We destroyed our enemies.
      HUNT: You destroyed a solar system.
      KATE: Filled with Magog.
      HUNT: Some of whom may be innocent.
      KATE: An innocent Magog? No one's going to cry over their deaths.
      BEM: I will.
      (A hooded figure enters.)
      HUNT: Meet an innocent Magog.
      (Bem removes his hood. Kate goes for her gun.)
      HUNT: Put away the gun.
      KATE: Sound the alert!
      BEM: No. I understand her fear. If she feels more comfortable, she
      can keep the gun trained on me. Let me talk to you. If after one
      hour, you still want to kill me, I won't stop you.

      [Outside Kate's quarters]

      (Trance is standing guard.)
      HAYAK: Who's in there?
      TRANCE: High level High Guard conference.
      HAYAK: Then I should be included.
      TRANCE: The High Guard wants to talk to the G Stat Comm alone.
      HAYAK: Is she near death?
      TRANCE: Hayak, the High Guard moves in mysterious ways.
      (Hayak leaves, muttering purple something.)

      [Kate's quarters]

      BEM: Have you ever wished for life without fear? Without enemies?
      One that wasn't a constant struggle for survival.
      KATE: Life is struggle.
      BEM: That is what your life has been. But what if everything you
      knew changed? What if there could be a life of peace?
      KATE: It doesn't matter what I think. I'll be dead soon.
      HUNT: It matters for your brother, and all the generations after
      you.
      KATE: All my life, I've worshipped you, waited for you. An absolute
      faith that no matter how horrible our enemies had made our lives,
      you'd come and save us.
      HUNT: I have come to save you. From yourselves.
      KATE: We don't live in mortal fear of ourselves. We don't worry
      about getting eaten or raped by ourselves. We live in fear of
      Magog. And you, you haven't said anything to change my mind about
      wanting to kill you right here, right now.
      BEM: Very well. But you did go one hour without killing me. And if
      you can go an hour, maybe you could go a day, then a week. Then
      maybe, just maybe, a lifetime.

      [Meeting area]

      (Hayak and others are watching on a hand-held screen.)
      CHILDREN: What's she doing? Kill it.

      [Outside Kate's quarters]

      HAYAK: High Guard. Come immediately to the Noble shrine.
      Something's leaking.
      HUNT: I'll be right there. (sotto) Rev Bem, you're fifty metres
      from the airlock. Go. I'll meet you ship-side.

      [Eureka Maru]

      BEKA: So, are you ever going to tell me what you're doing locked in
      my ship with all the sensors cut?
      HARPER: I can't. It's a secret.
      BEKA: Harper, come on. We're friends. We have no secrets.
      HARPER: Oh. Okay, what's your natural hair colour?
      BEKA: I can't tell you. It's a secret.
      HARPER: Hey!
      (Beka turns and Harper pulls out one of her hairs.)
      BEKA: Ow!
      HARPER: Well, then let's find out.

      [Meeting area]

      KATE: I didn't understand it either, at first, but then I started
      to think. What if our children could always live here at peace? And
      every time I would think that way, the next attack would come, and
      the next. We only survived because we had faith in the High Guard.
      And now he's here, and he's brought friends. And today I met one of
      his friends.
      (Hayak enters.)
      HAYAK: Is that what he is? Friend? Here's High Guard's friend.
      (Bem is pushed off an upper catwalk to dangle in mid-air from a
      rope tied around one ankle. Hayak hits him with a glowing stick.)
      BEM: Divine Spirit, forgive these children.
      HAYAK: Mia, your turn.
      (Hunt enters and takes the stick from Mia.)
      HUNT: Cut him down.
      HAYAK: But High Guard, how are these kids going to learn if we
      don't teach them?
      HUNT: Nassan's teaching you a new way.
      KATE: Hayak, listen to the High Guard.
      HAYAK: I've listened enough. The both of you, talking to this
      Magog, drinking his words like milk. I don't blame you, Nassan.
      You're dying, you're not thinking clearly. But you. You're the High
      Guard, yet everything you say spits on our sacred scripture. If
      you're really our Messiah, you'll beat this Magog to death
      yourself.
      HUNT: I am the High Guard, and I am your Messiah, but my ways are
      not your ways, and if what I say differs from sacred scripture,
      then what I say is the truth! And I say, cut him down!
      HAYAK: As you wish.
      (Bem crashes to the floor.)

      [Medical]

      TRANCE: Fourteen broken ribs and a ruptured something that only
      Magog seem to have.
      BEM: It's akin to a pancreas.
      TRANCE: Oh, I see. Okay. So, er, what's a pancreas?
      BEM: It's a argh!
      (Trance uses a large syringe to inject Bem.)
      TRANCE: Okay. All right. Okay. The nanobots are just fixing your
      ribs, okay?

      [Command]

      BEKA: We did it. Twenty two type two Arc Glide Slipfighters rigged
      for remote control.
      TYR: Our control.
      BEKA: Once we get out of here, we can remote fly those babies and
      their nova bombs off of GS nine whatever right into our hangars.
      HUNT: Where at least they'll be our problem.
      TYR: Or our solution.
      HUNT: Only gods should have that much power.
      TYR: Funny. Today, that's who you said you were.

      [Medical]

      TRANCE: I keep picturing you just hanging there. It seems so
      unforgivable.
      BEM: No transgression is unforgivable, except pride.
      (Hunt enters.)
      BEM: As a humble servant of Providence, I should be working towards
      releasing any anger I felt towards those children throughout the
      ordeal. I didn't want my last thoughts in this life to be dark.
      HUNT: Even if you can forgive them, I can't. We're leaving.
      BEM: Dylan, there's so much more to teach them.
      HUNT: They'll have to learn on their own. Trance has injected
      everyone with nanobots. Once the bombs are off their drift, the
      kids won't be exposed to radiation and they can live a full life.
      Hopefully, they'll mature on their own into people we could include
      into the Commonwealth someday.
      TRANCE: Oh, but some of them were coming around, like Mapes.
      HUNT: We're leaving. That's final. Now go shut the airlocks and
      prepare to depart.
      (Trance leaves. Hunt sits on the bed next to Bem.)
      BEM: What's really bothering you?
      HUNT: I want my dream of a restored Commonwealth to come true, but
      it's no good if it's based on a lie. I am not a Messiah. If there's
      anyone I've met who could be a Messiah, it's you. It's not me.
      BEM: I'm humbled, but please don't tempt me to commit the
      transgression of pride.
      HUNT: That's exactly the transgression I'm worried about
      committing. My vision is to found a Commonwealth based on the
      principles of truth. Today I compromised.
      BEM: That may be true, but I do believe you are a messenger, of
      light, of hope, of goodness, of civilisation. I think if you keep
      this forefront in your mind, you'll make the right compromises.

      [Outside an airlock]

      MAPES [OC]: Trance! Trance, please let me in. I want to come with
      you.
      TRANCE: Oh, Mapes, you can't. We're leaving. But I will come back.
      I promise, I will.
      MAPES [on monitor]: Don't leave me here with Hayak. He thinks I've
      been compromised. As soon as Nassan dies, he'll kill me. Please!
      (Trance opens the airlock and Hayak walks in.)
      HAYAK: All your brains must be in your tail.

      [Command]

      ROMMIE: Dylan, something strange is happening. I'm getting
      peripheral sensations. Someone's cut my internal sensors.
      HUNT: Contact Harper now.
      BEM: Er, Harper has locked himself in the Maru.
      (Where Harper hears a strange noise. The children enter Command
      with Trance as their hostage.)
      HAYAK: Hands up! Don't move!
      BOY: Nietzschean, freeze!
      BOY 2: Move! Everybody get down, right now!
      BOY: Move or I'll shoot!
      BEM: Suddenly my ribs hurt again.
      GIRL: Relax! Stay back!
      HUNT: Get off my ship.
      HAYAK: You don't have any power over us.
      (Hayak pushes Trance over to Hunt.)
      HUNT: Actually, I do. From here.
      HAYAK: Oh?
      HUNT: Soon, I'll launch your Arc Glide fighters and fly them with
      their noble bombs onto my ship.
      HAYAK: Turn on your display.
      (The tactical shows three slipfighters leaving the station, then
      veering off. Hunt presses buttons to no avail.)
      HAYAK: We're jamming your data link, Dylan. The real High Guard
      would know that. That's scripture directive twenty three twenty.
      But you're not the real High Guard, are you? Maybe there is no High
      Guard. Or maybe I'm the High Guard, and I've just blessed twenty
      two holy warriors. Each one of them, right now, is in an Arc Glide
      slipfighter targeted for a different solar system. The Day of
      Lightning is now!
      CHILDREN: Victory! Victory!
      (Shortly after, Beka is brought to Command. Dylan's hands are tied
      behind his back.)
      HAYAK: Look at this. It's not enough that Dylan's friends with
      Magog. He holds hands with Nietzscheans, too.
      TYR: I can assure you, Dylan and I are not friends. Let me join
      you. I can train your holy warriors to command a galaxy.
      (Hayak spits at Tyr.)
      HAYAK: Seven of our holy warriors are headed for Nietzschean
      systems.
      MAPES [on screen]: This is Flight Leader Mapes. I know I speak for
      we holy warriors, every one. We are sad yet proud to give our lives
      until we are all reunited
      HAYAK: Until we are all reunited in the great Commonwealth beyond
      known space.
      (While Hayak is distracted, Dylan uses a console. Little things
      start flying around Command. One boy collapses in pain.)
      HAYAK: Lester, I told you all to take nanobot inhibitors. Get him
      to Medical.
      MAPES [on screen]: Hayak, what's happening down there?
      HAYAK: We're fine. They tried nanobot probes to paralyse our neuron
      systems.
      HUNT: You took NI's before you boarded.
      HAYAK: We're not children. We're holy warriors. We've been fighting
      our entire lives. Line them up for execution!
      (Harper enters, carrying Kate.)
      HARPER: You're not allowed to give that order. At least, not while
      she's alive.
      HAYAK: Nassan, I'm glad you've lived to see the Day of Lightning.
      KATE: Tell the Noble Warriors to return. The High Guard's already
      said he doesn't want the Day of Lightning.
      HAYAK: That's when we thought he was our Messiah. But he's not. Ask
      him.
      KATE: Well?
      HUNT: I'm sorry, Nassan. I'm not a god. I'm not a Messiah, I'm just
      a man. I lied because I wanted your help, and I still do.
      KATE: Everything I've believed in my whole life. I don't, I don't
      know what to say, what to do.
      HAYAK: You're sick, incapacitated. I proclaim myself G Stat Comm.
      KATE: You can't do that.
      HAYAK: I can. I have. Tie her up with the others.
      (The children do not move.)
      HAYAK: This is DefCon One, the Day of Lightning! Now do as I say!
      (Some teenagers reluctantly obey. Trance uses her tail to loosen
      her bonds.
      Somewhere a naked woman steps through a doorway. She grabs one on
      the boys helping Lester to Medical.)
      HAYAK: Ready. Aim.
      (The naked woman enters Command.)
      HAYAK: Who are you?
      ROMMIE: I am Andromeda. The ship made flesh.
      HAYAK: You're just another liar, like all of them. Kill her!
      ROMMIE: I don't think so.
      (Hayak and his firing squad are pulled onto the deck.)
      HARPER: Oh. Artificial gravity field. Don't it just suck?
      (Trance's hands are free. She unties Hunt and the others.)
      ROMMIE: Dylan may not be a god, but on this ship, I am.
      HUNT: Andromeda. How? Your secret project.
      HARPER: That is the Andromeda I know, love, and gave human form to.
      HUNT: Okay, let's get those slipfighters.
      (The ship undocks.)
      HUNT: One minute twenty seven seconds before the fighters hit
      slipstream. Harper, unjam this thing!
      HARPER: Data link unjammed.
      HUNT: If one gets through.
      BEM: Forty three seconds to slipstream. Forty two.
      TYR: We're in range.
      ANDROMEDA: Link established.
      HUNT: Good. Andromeda, eject pilots.
      ANDROMEDA: Ejecting pilots.
      HUNT: Give me an Arc Glide self-destruct sequence. Execute.
      TYR: What is wrong with you!
      HUNT: Take over the fighters. Order them to enter slipstream and
      self-destruct.
      TYR: Those empty fighters are transiting into slipstream with our
      bombs.
      HUNT: They're not our bombs. They're no one's.
      (A slipstream window opens and KaBOOM!)
      HUNT: There's your Day of Lightning. (to Beka) Take the Maru out.
      Pick up the kids in the cockpits and return them to the drift.
      (Hunt pulls Harper's blue Hawaiian shirt off him.)
      HUNT: Tyr and I will escort these kids back.
      (Hunt helps Rommie cover up.)
      HUNT: Maybe you could help, too, Andromeda. Ah, first restore AG
      field. Nice work.
      HARPER: Hey! Don't forget, I created her. Now who's the god?

      [Corridor]

      (Docked again at the Guard station. Rommie is wearing the uniform
      her hologram wears.)
      ROMMIE: Captain. It's good to finally meet you face to face.
      (They shake hands.)
      HUNT: This is strange for me to see you like this.
      ROMMIE: Me too. Strange, but nice.
      HUNT: I'm er, so used to talking to you on the holo-screen. Waking
      up in the morning, having breakfast, you seeing me
      ROMMIE: Getting out of the shower.
      HUNT: Can we just say, on many occasions.
      ROMMIE: Of course.
      HUNT: So, I, er, hope your new avatar won't change our, er
      ROMMIE: Sir, Commonwealth protocol prohibits anything other than a
      purely professional relationship.
      HUNT: Well then, Andromeda. Welcome aboard.

      [Hydroponics]

      BEM: All those children, the potentiality. Seems such a waste. Do
      you think we made any difference?
      TRANCE: We might have. 

      [Meeting area]

      MAPES: We have survived and we've waited, but now, Dylan Hunt, the
      High Guard, has given us a new Mish Brief. Not to prepare for the
      Day of Lightning, but for membership in the restored Commonwealth.
      As your new Onced-Off, I proclaim, begin Transmit!

      [Bomb storage]

      (Hunt pushes a trolley containing one secure box out of the
      slipfighter bay, through bomb storage. He unlocks an extra-secure
      safe in the wall.)
      HUNT: Captain Dylan Hunt, Commanding officer. Nova containment
      authorised. Ten break alpha.
      HOLO-ROMMIE: Sir? Are you sure you want to retain a Nova bomb on
      board ship?
      HUNT: No. But all the same, Ten Break Alpha.

<Back to the episode listing

Andromeda and related marks are trademarks of Tribune Company. Copyright   2000
- 2005. The web pages on this site are for educational and entertainment
purposes only. All other copyrights property of their respective holders.

