 

Double Helix

Original Airdate: 30 Oct, 2000

       Machiavelli's ideas are basically sound ones for the Nietzschean
                                    people.
                      Unfortunately, he was an optimist.

                                 Cerebus Khmer
                                   Aphorisms
                                    CY 8969

      [Corridor]

      (Andromeda is gathering hydrogen from a star. Tyr is doing
      one-handed chin-ups. Android Rommie is walking the corridor in a
      new mini-dress. She stops to study her face in a monitor and purses
      her lips.)
      HARPER: You're welcome.
      ROMMIE: For what?
      HARPER: The lips. I spent a lot of time getting those just the
      right shape, right texture.
      ROMMIE: Hmm. How very thoughtful of you.
      HARPER: What? You don't like them?
      ROMMIE: No. No, I do. They're very lip-like.
      HARPER: Then why the look? Which, by the way, remember, I
      programmed into your facial vectors to express displeasure.
      ROMMIE: I can't help but notice that you engineered my humanoid
      form with certain features that, strictly speaking, aren't
      necessary for my normal operations.
      HARPER: Ah.
      ROMMIE: I guess I'm wondering, Harper, when you made this body, who
      did you do it for?
      HARPER: Ah, er, well, for you, Rommie. Absolutely, for. Okay, I
      know that look, too. It means Harper, you're full of it. Er,
      technically for both of us?
      ROMMIE: Oh, really?
      HARPER: Okay, Rommie, you're taking this all wrong. I mean, for
      you, er, because I wanted you to feel the full advantages of being
      a human woman. You deserve it. And for me in the capacity of an
      engineer who prides himself on perfectionism, I just wanted
      everything to be just right.
      ROMMIE: So, when you handled certain parts of me, did you wear
      gloves?
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: All hands report to Command.

      [Command]

      (Hunt and Bem enter.)
      HUNT: Status, Rommie.
      ROMMIE: I'm detecting signs of combat. Multiple vectors. Mostly in
      the asteroid belt.
      HUNT: Secure from fueling. I thought this system was uninhabited.
      BEM: Apparently not as uninhabited as we thought.
      (Alien speech over the comm.)
      BEKA: They're speaking Than.
      HUNT: Translation, please.
      BEM: Some sort of confrontation between the Than-Thre-Kull and
      Nietzscheans.
      TYR [on viewscreen]: Nietzscheans?
      HUNT: That's strange. The maps don't show any Nietzschean
      settlements. Do we have visuals?
      (Beka puts the display on the viewscreen.)
      BEKA: Ah, hit your thrusters! Duke right! Duke right! He's on your
      six!
      (The Than ship goes KaBOOM!)
      BEM: Eternal life grant unto them, and may perpetual light shine
      upon them.
      ROMMIE: I'm receiving a distress signal from a crippled Than ship.
      HUNT: Establish communications.
      (A Than appears on the viewscreen.)
      BEM: They've lost all power. She's being targeted by Nietzschean
      fighters.
      HUNT: We can save her. Harper, rig hangar seven for rescue. Beka,
      plot a course to intercept. Tyr, report to Command.
      TYR [on viewscreen]: You don't even know what this conflict is
      about.
      HUNT: I'll sort that out later. Right now, that Than needs our
      help. Tell the pilot we'll secure her craft inside in ten minutes.
      TYR [on viewscreen]: Captain Hunt! Your blind idealism will get us
      all killed.
      HUNT: Idealism's gotten me this far, Tyr. I must be doing something
      right.
      TYR [on viewscreen]: Let's hope you're here to pat yourself on the
      back tomorrow.
      (Tyr's image vanishes. The Andromeda moves forward.)
      HUNT: Harper, open the hangar. Prepare for retrieval.
      HARPER: Opening the hangar door in the middle of combat. This
      should be fun.
      BEKA: Dylan, as much as I hate to sound like Tyr, how does saving
      one Than justify risking an entire ship?
      HUNT: This is more than just a rescue mission. If we can negotiate
      a treaty between the Than and the Nietzscheans, we'll put the
      Commonwealth back on the map.
      (Tyr enters.)
      HUNT: Decided to join us.
      TYR: If you insist upon risking our lives, I intend to see to our
      survival.
      HUNT: By all means. Broadcast on all frequencies. This is the
      Starship Andromeda Ascendant to all combatants. Cease your
      hostilities immediately.
      BEM: The Than acknowledge the cease-fire.
      HUNT: The Nietzscheans?
      BEM: No answer.
      (A weapon fired from an asteroid destroys a Than ship.)
      TYR: I'd call that a definite no.
      BEKA: Yeah, that was very bad.
      HUNT: Where did that come from?
      BEM: It appears to be a plasma cannon from one of the asteroids.
      Looks like some kind of Nietzschean colony.
      TYR: I've got it! Target locked.
      HUNT: Hold your fire! There's still a Than ship out there. Save her
      first, then we can worry about the cannon.
      BEKA: Dylan, this is not ship-to-ship weaponry. If they turn their
      fire on us, it's really going to hurt.
      HUNT: I'm betting it takes them a while to reload. Harper, proceed
      with the rescue.
      HARPER: Opening the hangar doors. And deactivating aft point
      defences. Oh, look, we're a target now.
      TYR: They're recharging. They're firing!
      (The plasma bolt misses.)
      HARPER: Got it! Closing the doors. Come on, come on!
      TYR: They're firing again!
      (This shot hits, sending energy over Andromeda's hull, knocking
      everyone about and making consoles explode.)
      HUNT: Tyr, return fire hard and fast!
      (Tyr launches missiles.)
      BEKA: They are not returning fire.
      HUNT: Maybe we got their attention. Damage report.
      ROMMIE: The hit took out MTP thrusters three and five. Maximum
      speed is down to thirty nine PSL. I can't take many more hits like
      that. I'm receiving a hail.
      HUNT: Beka, go get Trance and check on our new friend. Andromeda,
      Rev, Harper.
      HARPER: Damage control.
      HUNT: You got it.
      (Bem, Trance and Harper leave.)
      HUNT: On screen.
      (A Nietzschean man appears.)
      GUDERIAN [on viewscreen]: I'm Guderian, Alpha of the Orca Pride.
      Identify yourself.
      HUNT: This is Captain Dylan Hunt of the starship Andromeda
      Ascendant.
      GUDERIAN [on viewscreen]: Are you allied with the bugs?
      HUNT: No, I represent the Systems Commonwealth.
      GUDERIAN [on viewscreen]: The Commonwealth? Why not the Confederate
      States of America, or the Lost Knights of Teutonia Six?
      HUNT: We're here to help.
      GUDERIAN [on viewscreen]: Really? To help us? You have a funny way
      of showing it. 
      HUNT: We only fired in self-defence. But we would prefer to
      mediate, helping negotiate a peaceful settlement with the Than.
      GUDERIAN [on viewscreen]: The Than have been attacking my people
      for over fifty years. Somehow I don't think you can stop that.
      HUNT: I'd like to try. Our goal is to restore peace, establish law
      and order. I think you could use some of each.
      GUDERIAN [on viewscreen]: Maybe you're right. If it'll keep the
      Than from killing my children, then by all means let's talk
      business. But first, let's end the standoff. If you could redirect
      your weapons
      (Tyr whispers to Hunt.)
      TYR: If you lower your guard, he'll have a clean shot and he'll
      take it.
      GUDERIAN [on viewscreen]: I see you have a Nietzschean on board.
      HUNT: Yes, he's a good example of the re-established Commonwealth.
      Nietzscheans and humans working in peaceful co-existence.
      GUDERIAN [on viewscreen]: Very well, if it makes him feel more
      comfortable, let's leave our weapons on. But do come down, Captain,
      and bring the Nietzschean. Talking is the important thing.
      HUNT: We'll see you soon. Andromeda out.
      (Transmission ends.)
      HUNT: I take it you think that was too easy.
      TYR: Much. I don't think you should go.
      HUNT: Why not?
      TYR: During the uprising, it was a common Nietzschean tactic to
      capture High Guard officers and use them as human shields against
      their own ships.
      HUNT: And you think that's Guderian's intention?
      TYR: I'm certain of it.
      HUNT: All right, that explains why he wants me down there. Why does
      he want you?
      TYR: He wants to kill me. I know how he thinks.
      HUNT: Then what do you suggest?

      [Weapons locker]

      TYR: I'll need an armoured vehicle. Something that can take some
      hits.
      HUNT: A Lancer drop-pod should do the trick. I'll have Andromeda
      get one prepped and ready. If you need all that, maybe you
      shouldn't go. We can talk from a distance.
      TYR: Talking won't accomplish anything. Right now, the only reason
      we're alive is because of this standoff, and the only way we'll
      survive it is if I can find out their plans before they destroy us.
      HUNT: What if there's a chance, even one in a thousand, that
      Guderian really does want to talk peace?
      TYR: Then I'll come back and get you. If I'm not back in a day,
      launch everything you've got at them and get out of here. Quickly.

      [Colony]

      (A hatch in the asteroid opens to let drop-pod 26 inside. It lands
      in a cargo area. Guderian steps forward. The pod hatch starts to
      open, and Guderian raises his weapon. Many men appear from behind
      crates and open fire.)
      MAN: It's empty. Where'd he go?
      GUDERIAN: It's a diversion.
      DIMITRI: Five more pods landed.
      GUDERIAN: Aren't we the clever one. Cover all the entrances!
      DIMITRI: Blue squad, come with me. Red, this way!
      (Tyr abseils down from the rafters once the coast is clear.)

      [Medical]

      HARPER: How is the bug?
      BEKA: The Than. Try to be polite to our guest.
      TRANCE: She should be clicking and popping by the end of the week.
      Why do you ask?
      HARPER: Because I got the mission parameters from bug-girl's, the
      Than's on-board computer. I wanted to get confirmation before I
      told Dylan.
      BEKA: No. We don't have time. We're going to have to take it on
      faith.

      [Corridor]

      BEKA: According to the Than's on-board computer, the Nietzscheans
      we're dealing with are pirates. This Pride has been raiding Than
      supply routes for over fifty years.
      HUNT: Doesn't the Than Empire have one of the largest fleets in the
      known worlds? So why haven't they caught them by now?
      HARPER: Could they, er, I don't know, maybe move the asteroid out
      of its orbit or something?
      HUNT: Maybe with a pulse plasma cannon.
      BEKA: That would explain why they don't appear on the Than's
      asteroid charts.
      HUNT: Until now. One of the Than scouts escaped after the
      Nietzscheans fired their weapon.

      [Command]

      BEKA: Which means a Than fleet's on its way with blood on its mind.
      HUNT: In the old days, we'd arrest the pirates. Huh, in the old
      days.
      BEKA: Yeah. By holding hands with Nietzscheans, we're not exactly
      on the side of the angels.
      HUNT: Well then, we turn them into angels. The Nietzscheans spent
      centuries as peaceful members of the Commonwealth. They can do it
      again, if we create the right environment.
      HARPER: Hello? They're pirates. They're enemies.
      BEM: Do I not destroy my enemy by making him my friend?
      HUNT: Thank you.
      HARPER: Okay, fine. Trust the mission, trust the mission. I'm with
      you.
      BEKA: On the bright side, we have sent the Nietzscheans our
      well-known ambassador of friendship, Tyr.

      [Colony]

      (Guderian and Dimitri lead their groups to where Tyr's actual
      drop-pod landed. ) 
      MAN: Clear!
      MAN 2: Clear!
      (Tyr grabs Dimitri and puts a knife to his throat.)
      TYR: Shall we begin our negotiation?
      GUDERIAN: Nicely done. Let him go and we'll give you some of our
      cargo.
      (A blonde woman enters.)
      GUDERIAN: Or, we could consider some alternative solutions.
      TYR: I've got a suggestion. You turn your cannon away from our
      ship, and I'll return this potential husband and father.
      GUDERIAN: Dimitri would rather die than to have me reveal this, but
      unfortunately for you, your hostage is sterile and worthless. Let
      him go. Perhaps I'll let you live.
      TYR: Worthless? Is that so? Then why does she look so interested?
      Go ahead! Shoot us!
      GUDERIAN: If you insist.
      FREYA: No!
      GUDERIAN: Freya, we can bond you with someone better than my
      brother.
      FREYA: I don't care about Dimitri. I want him.
      DIMITRI: Freya, he jumped me from behind!
      FREYA: Exactly. He outwitted you. Which makes him a better breeding
      specimen.
      DIMITRI: But Freya, I'm fertile. I can father your children.
      TYR: Not if you're dead. Now, be quiet. I've got a proposal to
      consider.
      OLMA [OC]: I'll be the one who judges that.
      (An older brunette enters and walks around Tyr.)
      OLMA: Mmm. Strapping. Strong shoulders, and your calf muscles, very
      impressive. You might be a good addition to our Pride.
      GUDERIAN: Muscles aren't everything.
      OLMA: True. So, why don't you release Dimitri and tell me your
      lineage. What's the matter? Genes inferior? Let him go and talk to
      me.
      TYR: Talk, perhaps. Let him go? I don't think so.
      OLMA: Very promising, but I still need to know what Pride you're
      from.
      TYR: I am Kodiak.
      GUDERIAN: Kodiak?
      DIMITRI: Kodiak? That Pride was destroyed twenty years ago
      TYR: Destroyed, yes. Betrayed by our allies. Allies including Orca
      Pride, if memory serves me. Kodiak is gone, but I survive, and I am
      Tyr Anasazi, out of Victoria by Barbarossa.
      FREYA: Barbarossa son of Hannibal, or Barbarossa son of Temujin?
      TYR: Temujin.
      OLMA: He has good lineage. I approve. If Freya wants him, I have no
      objections.
      TYR: Assuming I accept.
      OLMA: A fertile female? An established Pride? You should take her
      up on it before she changes her mind.
      FREYA: And besides, we could use some new DNA.
      OLMA: Of course this is all contingent on the one true test. A
      genetic sample.
      (Tyr puts his arm across Dimitri's throat to hold him and uses his
      knife to cut his palm. He smears the blood onto Dimitri's cheek and
      pushes him towards Olma. Dimitri mutters something as he wipes his
      cheek.)
      TYR: Help yourself.

      [Communal area]

      (Some men play drums vigorously. Others use punch-bags. Guderian is
      handing a knife to a young boy.)
      TYR: Guderian seems well-liked.
      FREYA: He's the most successful Alpha in our Pride's history. He's
      a great father and family man. He has twenty two children and a
      dozen wives.
      TYR: You know, you speak as though you admire him. Why haven't you
      chosen him?
      FREYA: And be Guderian's thirteenth wife? Maybe I was thinking I
      could do better.

      [Freya's quarters]

      (Freya shows Tyr a hologram of her family tree.)
      FREYA: My great-great-grandfather Bolivar was also an Alpha, as was
      his father's father, all the way back to Saladin.
      TYR: Saladin? Saladin Cree?
      FREYA: The founder of my line. Olma says that my offspring can't
      help but be Alpha's. And what about your Pride, the Kodiak?
      TYR: My lineage was also proud. The Kodiak were entrusted with the
      remains of the original Progenitor.
      FREYA: You've actually seen the body of Drago Museveni?
      TYR: As a child. His mummified remains were enshrined in our
      fasthold. Nietzscheans from all over the known worlds would make
      pilgrimages to see it. We lived under a permanent truce, and our
      allies guaranteed our safety until the Drago-Kasov Pride claimed
      they were the Progenitor's rightful keepers. We fought so very
      fiercely. Foolishly, we thought our allies would protect us, but on
      the day of battle, the other Prides abandoned us. Those of the
      Kodiak that weren't killed were displaced, exiled. I saw my mother.
      She was slow. I became a mercenary and I gave up looking for a
      home.
      (Olma enters.)
      OLMA: In that case, I have good news. The test is complete. His
      genes are excellent. Welcome to Orca Pride.
      FREYA: Now you have a home.

      [Hunt's quarters]

      (Hunt is at his desk looking at a flexi of Rhade.)
      BEM: You called?
      HUNT: People in your faith, do they practice confession?
      BEM: If they like. Why?
      HUNT: I have something to confess. I'm here to make peace with the
      Nietzscheans, but inside me I want to kill every single one of them
      because of him. Gaheris Rhade.
      BEM: The first officer of your ship.
      HUNT: More than that. My friend. He was supposed to be the best man
      at my wedding and then he betrayed me. Because I trusted him, the
      Nietzschean invasion got past my ship and the Commonwealth was
      destroyed. I lost my crew, my family, my friends, my fianc . I lost
      the time and age I belonged to, Rev. Hell, I lost civilisation
      itself.
      BEM: And now you're wondering is it worth reaching out to
      Nietzscheans?
      HUNT: They're genetically engineered to be paranoid and selfish and
      treacherous. Am I right to be prejudiced?
      BEM: As a Magog, my own genes predispose me to slaughter
      indiscriminately, eat my victims, lay eggs in the paralysed bodies
      of sentient beings. I think if you were truly prejudiced, you would
      have shot me on sight.
      HUNT: It's not the same. You're a Wayist. You're the most peaceful
      person I know.
      BEM: Ah. Then in each species, no matter how horrible, there's room
      for improvement. You don't have to forget. You don't even have to
      forgive. But you must look for the good in the beings you
      encounter, otherwise your restored Commonwealth will be founded on
      distrust, and it will be over before it even begins.

      [Corridor]

      (Tyr and Harper walk out of the cargo hold.)
      HARPER: Why didn't they kill you? I mean, not that I'm not glad to
      see you or anything.
      TYR: I got them to accept me into their Pride.
      HARPER: Hey, aren't we the smooth talker. So, er, any chance
      they'll negotiate?
      TYR: None. The Than fleet is two days away, and the only way Orca
      Pride can defeat them is by using the Andromeda and they think I'm
      going to help deliver it to them.
      HARPER: Er, I hate to ask, but
      TYR: Am I?
      (Tyr growls. Harper retreats and Tyr laughs.)
      TYR: Come on, boy. Let's go have a look at this.
      HARPER: Funny guy.

      [Command]

      (The schematics are up on the screen.)
      BEKA: Nice. A blaster and a fusion engine, all in one.
      TYR: According to the specs, when they open the cannon's bore they
      can achieve nearly seven million Newton's of thrust.
      HUNT: More than enough to alter their orbit.
      TYR: Which they do routinely at the first sign of danger.
      Unfortunately for the Nietzscheans, this little standoff of ours
      has blocked that option.
      HARPER: Okay, I may not be an expert, but this is one hell of a
      gun, and I do not want to be its target again. So, let's run?
      HUNT: We're not going anywhere. We finish what we started.
      BEKA: Urgent message for Dylan Hunt. These Nietzscheans don't want
      to be members of the Commonwealth.
      HUNT: Look, these Nietzscheans can't live off of piracy forever.
      Sooner or later, the Than will crush them. They have no future,
      unless we help them.
      TYR: They won't negotiate so long as they perceive themselves to be
      in a position of strength.
      HUNT: Then we'll have to limit their options.
      BEKA: Which means neutralising that gun.
      TYR: There may be a way. However, if they catch me, they'll open
      fire, so you'll need a way to protect yourselves.
      HUNT: I'm open to suggestions.
      TYR: Well, now that we know how that cannon works, we can
      reconfigure the ram-scoop to deflect the charged plasma.
      HARPER: That would disable our sensors. We'd be blinder than a
      Nightsider in sunshine.
      TYR: Unavoidable, I'm afraid.
      HARPER: Don't tell me you're considering this! We may as well poke
      out our own eyes with knitting needles, or just ram our heads
      HUNT: Thank you for your input, Mister Harper.
      BEKA: Yeah, but there must be another way. I'm sorry, no offence,
      Tyr, but you're one of them. How do we know you're not on their
      side?
      TYR: Were I in your position, I would ask the same question.
      However, you hear this. I am not one of them, and I never will be.
      They are Orca Pride, I am Kodiak. When my Pride was destroyed, they
      were among its betrayers, and while they may pretend to make me
      welcome, I know I am not. Destroy them, convert them, leave them
      alone. It's all the same to me.

      [Drop pod bay]

      HUNT: Harper says the ram-scoop deflector will be up in less than
      an hour.
      TYR: Perfect.
      HUNT: One thing. In light of our vulnerability to surprise attack,
      we can't let them know that there are only five of us up here. So
      as far as they're concerned, we've got a full crew. Four thousand
      people and a lancer regiment. Clear?

      [Colony]

      GUDERIAN: I wasn't sure you were coming back.
      TYR: I wasn't sure I'd still be welcome.
      GUDERIAN: We both got better than we expected. It was a good day.
      TYR: I brought you a gift for your collection.
      GUDERIAN: A High Guard force lance.
      (Guderian takes it and extends it.)
      GUDERIAN: Nice balance.
      TYR: It's a mere toy, compared to the real prize.
      GUDERIAN: Yes. The Andromeda Ascendant.
      (Guderian rests the end of the force lance on Tyr's chest and
      fires. Tyr is thrown back.)
      GUDERIAN: You think I'm a fool? You downloaded the schematics of my
      plasma cannon, didn't you?
      TYR: Yes. I gave them to Captain Hunt to win his trust.
      GUDERIAN: Is that why you gave this to me? To win my trust? You've
      given him everything! Now we're helpless against them.
      TYR: No! They're helpless against us.
      GUDERIAN: Talk fast.
      TYR: They've blinded their sensors. Now, instead of listening to
      their ultimatums from down here, we can approach them undetected,
      and deliver our ultimatum from inside their Command.
      GUDERIAN: You really think I'd walk into such an obvious trap? I
      have less than three hundred combatants! What good is that against
      a crew of thousands?
      TYR: None. But there are no thousands on the Andromeda.
      FREYA: How many?
      TYR: Five.

      [Plasma cannon]

      TYR: This anode plate, it's worn. Replace it.
      (The man leaves with the part. Tyr takes out a gizmo. Dimitri and
      the other guard draw their weapons.)
      DIMITRI: Stop right now. What are you doing?
      TYR: Dimitri, I haven't the time.
      (Dimitri tries to growl and takes the gizmo.)
      DIMITRI: Guderian!
      (Guderian enters.)
      DIMITRI: I caught him with this.
      TYR: I have to calibrate the cannon's pulse charge. At worst, we
      want to disable the ship, not blow it out of the sky.
      DIMITRI: How do we know you're not trying to sabotage it?
      TYR: You look at me. I'm alone. I'm childless. I've spent my entire
      life trying to prove myself so that a female would claim me for her
      own. Freya chose me! Finally, finally, I have a chance to be what
      every fibre in our being strives to be. A husband and a father. Why
      should I have to explain this to you, Guderian? You, with your
      twelve wives. Freya will be my first, but only if I can prevent the
      Than from destroying this rock. So, you tell me! What's in my best
      interest?
      GUDERIAN: Let him do his job.

      [Memory - Hunt's quarters]

      (Hunt looks across at a picture of him with Rhade, and remembers a
      game of 3D Go. Rhade places a black counter. )
      RHADE: Your move, Captain. Careful. Ten moves until I win.
      HUNT: Do you have to do that? It's incredibly annoying.
      RHADE: I just thought you deserved fair warning.
      HUNT: Ah ha. Ten moves until I win. I've been playing Go with you
      for three years now. Why do you still treat winning like it's a
      matter of life and death?
      RHADE: Because it is. You don't really understand Nietzscheans, do
      you?
      HUNT: Enlighten me.
      RHADE: To lose is to be proven inferior.
      (Down on the asteroid colony, men practice fighting while Dimitri
      watches Freya with Tyr.)
      RHADE [OC]: If I'm inferior, my genes are suspect, and no
      Nietzschean female will choose me. If no Nietzschean females will
      choose me, I can't reproduce. Then, when I die, my genes die. But
      if I win, that indicates my genes must be good. I get chosen by
      more females. And the more I get chosen, the more I pass on my
      genes. The more my genes get passed on, the more of me lives,
      eternally. To a Nietzschean, a game is never just a game.
      HUNT: That's a pretty cold way to look at life.
      RHADE: Truth is cold.
      HUNT: Maybe, but if you ask me, you're missing out on a lot.
      RHADE: Like what?
      HUNT: Like love.
      RHADE: Oh. We have love.
      HUNT: I'm not talking about being nice to others. I'm talking about
      what I feel for Sarah. Love, Rhade. It's like magic.
      RHADE: There is no magic. Just science you don't understand.

      [Freya's quarters]

      (Freya leads Tyr to her bed.)
      RHADE [OC]: You may feel intensely attracted to your fianc . You
      may feel pleasure when you breed, but this isn't magic. Your DNA
      has evolved this way so you'll reproduce. Nietzscheans know this
      explicitly. That is why the most important thing a Nietzschean
      female can give her chosen male is the double helix.
      (Freya puts the armband on and hands the other to Tyr.)
      RHADE [OC]: It represents the male and female's DNA, now bound
      together by metal. It confers the most honored titles a Nietzschean
      male can hold. Husband and father.
      (Freya and Tyr consummate their union.)
      RHADE [OC]: You see, it's not that we don't love, it's better,
      because everything we do furthers our reproduction. Everything in
      our lives is an intense, sexually charged negotiation.

      [Memory - Hunt's quarters]

      HUNT: All right, I think we've just reached the, er, too much
      information stage.
      (Hunt stretches back, covering his face. Rhade removes a piece from
      the board.)
      RHADE: Your move.
      HUNT: What happened to my five D four?
      RHADE: You had no piece there.
      HUNT: Yes, I did. Unless you cheated.
      RHADE: What do you mean?
      (Hunt takes Rhade's wrist. He opens his hand to reveal Hunt's white
      piece.)
      RHADE: It's only cheating if you get caught.

      [Memory - Command]

      (As Rhade tries to kill Hunt in episode one.)
      HUNT: Rhade!
      RHADE: I tried to warn you!

      [Memory - Hunt's quarters]

      HUNT: Three years we've been playing this game. Have you always
      been cheating?
      RHADE: Haven't you?
      HUNT: Why would I cheat?
      RHADE: The same reason I do. So that you can win.

      [Hunt's quarters]

      HUNT: Why didn't I listen? You were warning me you'd do anything to
      win. Even kill me.
      (He picks up the picture and remembers when he killed Rhade.)

      [Memory - Command]

      HUNT: Gaheris, what have you done?
      RHADE: I'm proud of you. You should be

      [Hunt's quarters]

      HUNT: You were proud of me because I won.

      [Memory - Hunt's quarters]

      RHADE: Another round?

      [Hunt's quarters]

      HUNT: Yes. Andromeda, gradual adjust AP solenoid valve to increase
      anti-proton mass by ten percent an hour until my explicit
      counter-order.
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Are you sure, Captain?
      HUNT: I've never been more sure.

      (Deleted scenes 41 and 42 - best guess as to correct location. If
      you know better, let me know.)
      [Hydroponics]

      HUNT: I feel like I'm reliving the worst moments of my life, only
      three hundred years later. I'm betting everything I've got,
      everything I believe in, on a Nietzschean.
      BEM: The Divine often teaches us in echoes.
      HUNT: I just wish the Divine would make things a little easier.
      BEM: Has Tyr given you any reason not to trust him? Beyond his
      being a Nietzschean.
      HUNT: No.
      BEM: Then you must ask yourself, do you want Tyr to be a member of
      your crew or do you not? The only way to trust Tyr is to trust him.

      [Command]

      (Harper is working on a console, with both Rommie and Holo-Rommie
      present.)
      HARPER: Okay, Rommie, now as I increase the power you're skin's
      going to start to feel a little prickly. You may notice a film come
      over your eyes. If any of this actually hurts, let me know, okay? I
      can always disconnect you.
      ROMMIE: All right.
      HARPER: Okay, how's this?
      ROMMIE: Ow, ah!
      HARPER: Too much?
      ROMMIE: No, no, no, I'm just getting used to it, that's all.
      HOLO-ROMMIE: It feels like I'm wearing a Vedran porcupine coat,
      only inside out.
      HARPER: Well, look on the bright side. After I'm done here, you
      could get hit by a class five ion storm and you wouldn't feel it.
      Course, you couldn't see it coming, either.
      ROMMIE: Well, at least this is only until Tyr can neutralise their
      pulse cannon, then I get my sight back.
      HARPER: Yeah, right, whatever.
      HOLO-ROMMIE: Dylan knows what he's doing. He wouldn't go along with
      Tyr's plan if he didn't think it was safe.
      HARPER: Okay, okay. I can't argue with the both of you. Captain
      knows best. This is really stupid.

      [Freya's quarters]

      (In the afterglow of ecstasy.)
      FREYA: So, now what?
      TYR: You want more?
      FREYA: I wonder, who are you? Everything deep loves masks. What are
      you thinking?
      TYR: It's complicated.
      FREYA: Of course it is. Options, plans, plots. So many things to
      weigh, so many decisions to consider. The question is, will your
      final decision include me?
      TYR: What if my decision includes you only as first female to an
      Alpha.
      (They kiss. Guderian enters.)
      GUDERIAN: Tyr. It's time.

      [Colony]

      GUDERIAN: I can't believe I'm betting everything on you.
      TYR: Were I in your place, I'd say the same thing.
      GUDERIAN: Maybe you would, maybe you wouldn't, but if you betray me
      I'll hunt you down and I'll kill you.
      TYR: There's no profit in revenge.
      GUDERIAN: I've had enough children. I can afford to indulge in my
      whims.

      [Command]

      ROMMIE: Tyr's pod is landing in hangar four.
      HUNT: Good. What's the status of the Than fleet?
      ROMMIE: They've transited to normal space.
      HUNT: ETA?
      ROMMIE: Less than two hours.
      HUNT: Then we'll move to intercept.
      (A plasma bolt hits Andromeda.)
      ROMMIE: I've been hit by the plasma cannon.
      HUNT: Rommie, are you all right?
      ROMMIE: I'm barely damaged. Almost all of the plasma stream was
      deflected. But there's something else. Airlock's opening!
      TYR: That's the sound of Nietzscheans boarding, Captain Hunt.
      (Tyr points a forcelance at Hunt.)

      [Corridor]

      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Systems disrupted. Internal defences offline.
      (Trance and Harper walk around a corner and meet Guderian and his
      men.)
      HARPER: Hey, if you're looking for the restrooms, they're down the
      hall and around the corner, back the way you came.
      GUDERIAN: Amusing. Split up, we'll meet in Command.
      MAN: This way.
      MAN 2: Get her.
      (Harper and Trance are taken prisoner.)
      HARPER: Ow!

      [Corridor 2]

      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Intruder alert! Intruder alert!
      (Beka aims a forcelance at two men.)
      BEKA: Tour's over. Go home.
      (Another Nietzschean approaches Beka from behind. She fights all
      three quite well until she gets thrown to the floor, then Bem jumps
      down a ladder and sprays venom into one man's face. He starts to
      deal with the others when the rest of the boarders come running.)
      BEKA: Rev! They'll kill you!
      GUDERIAN: Stop! Don't shoot. Don't kill them. They might turn out
      to be useful. Bring them.

      [Command]

      (Guderian enters with his men and captives.)
      HUNT: Tyr, you forgot to mention you were bringing guests.
      TYR: You can deactivate the ram-scoop deflector, Captain. You'll
      see you're surrounded.
      HUNT: Andromeda, you heard him.
      ROMMIE: Ram-scoop deflector deactivated.
      HUNT: You like my force lance.
      GUDERIAN: I like all of your equipment, Captain, especially
      Andromeda. Now hand it over to me.
      HUNT: Just let me check one thing first. Rommie, what's the status
      on the AP power converter?
      ROMMIE: Currently, anti-proton mass in the combustion chamber is at
      one hundred and twenty four percent of maximum recommended
      capacity. The chamber's designed to take one hundred and twenty
      five percent before complete system failure.
      HUNT: How long until the ship explodes?
      ROMMIE: Unless I receive your explicit counter-order to begin
      emergency decompression, three minutes.
      HUNT: I'm not inclined to give that order. I was hoping to persuade
      you to join the Commonwealth. I always knew that was a long shot.
      But one thing I'm not prepared to do is turn this ship over to
      pirates, or anyone else, for that matter.
      ROMMIE: Two minutes, forty five seconds.
      (Klaxons blare.)
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Warning, systems critical. Warning, systems
      critical.
      GUDERIAN: You're bluffing.
      ROMMIE: Two minutes, thirty seconds.
      HUNT: Anyway, destroying the ship may be a little extreme, but it's
      the only back-up plan I've got. How about you? None, huh? Then
      that's too bad. Tyr, call me crazy, but I'm betting you've got a
      backup plan.
      (Tyr takes out the gizmo he was using on the plasma cannon.)
      TYR: Always.
      (He activates it, and a massive explosion rips across the surface
      of the asteroid. Tyr looks a little ashamed of himself.)
      GUDERIAN: The plasma cannon!
      TYR: Gone.
      GUDERIAN: But the Than? We're defenceless.
      HUNT: No, just disarmed. But we can protect you. Join the
      Commonwealth. Together, we can negotiate with the Than.
      GUDERIAN: You'd die before you'd turn over your ship. Well, I'd die
      before I'd serve you.
      ROMMIE: One minute.
      GUDERIAN: Return to the fighters.
      TYR: Perhaps now you'll know how my Pride felt after the Orca
      betrayed them. Wandering the galaxies without a home. Inferior!
      GUDERIAN: Your betrayal also betrays Freya.
      TYR: You and your people had better collect your things and leave
      the asteroid before the Than arrive.
      GUDERIAN: You're right. I'll save them. My wives, my Pride, my
      twenty two children, all of whom will seek revenge on you, Kodiak.
      (Guderian and his Nietzscheans leave. Tyr throws the gizmo to
      Hunt.)
      HUNT: Andromeda, begin emergency venting.
      ROMMIE: Emergency venting, aye.

      [Medical]

      (Than vessels approach Andromeda. Bem does the translating as
      usual.)
      BEM: My grub farm is not much, but you're more than welcome to
      visit.
      HUNT: Maybe we'll take you up on that.
      TRANCE: I think our friend is ready to join her fleet.
      BEM: The Than Hegemony also expresses its gratitude to the
      Commonwealth for ridding its sector of Nietzschean criminals. They
      respect us as a force for peace in the galaxy.
      TRANCE: You got what you wanted.
      HUNT: Not really, but it's a start.

      [Observation deck]

      (Tyr watches as Guderian's Pride evacuate the asteroid and destroy
      what they've left behind. He removes the double helix armband.)
      HUNT: I'm sorry your decision cost you the status of husband and
      father.
      TYR: It was part of the plan. I was always on your side.
      HUNT: If it had been necessary, you would have killed me. You
      played your options right to the end. Guderian was set to kill me.
      TYR: I wasn't on Guderian's side.
      HUNT: Of course not. You'd never serve Guderian. You'd have turned
      and killed him, sent for Freya, and used the Andromeda to found
      your own Pride.
      TYR: Really?
      HUNT: Isn't that what's best for Tyr?
      TYR: I'm proud of you.
      HUNT: Why?
      TYR: You're thinking like a Nietzschean.
      HUNT: If I were thinking like a Nietzschean, I'd kill you.
      TYR: Why don't you?
      HUNT: Because my mission is to restore civilisation. And if I can't
      persuade you, a member of my own crew, how can I win over the rest
      of the galaxy?
      TYR: Just when I thought you'd controlled your blind idealism, you
      say something like that. So, are you endeavouring to trust me,
      then?
      HUNT: I trust Tyr to be Tyr.

      [Transport ship]

      (In a hold crowded with women, children and bunk beds. Olma is
      talking to Freya.)
      OLMA: On the one hand, he won. He outsmarted us all, including
      Guderian. He is a worthy father.
      (Olma holds up a small bottle of clear liquid.)
      OLMA: On the other hand, he betrayed us, he abandoned you, and
      killing us would be less painful than what we must now endure. He
      is an unworthy husband.
      (Olma holds up a similar bottle of red liquid.)
      OLMA: The decision is yours.
      (Freya tries to decide whether to keep her baby or not, while Tyr
      gazes out into space looking for her.)

<Back to the episode listing

Andromeda and related marks are trademarks of Tribune Company. Copyright   2000
- 2005. The web pages on this site are for educational and entertainment
purposes only. All other copyrights property of their respective holders.

