 

A Rose In The Ashes

Original Airdate: 27 Nov, 2000

                      The truest measure of a society is
                     how it treats its elderly, its pets,
                              and its prisoners.

                     Keeper of the Way Vision of Faith VII
                                    CY 9891

      [Command]

      (Andromeda is orbiting a planet. Harper is in the pilot's chair,
      reading from a flexi.)
      HARPER: I, Seamus Zelazny Harper, the Exalted Love Machine of the
      planet Earth, do hereby ordain that when fifty planets have agreed
      to join the Systems Commonwealth
      TRANCE: What are you reading?
      HARPER: It's, er, Dylan's fill in the blanks Constitution. I, state
      name, the, state title, of, enter name of planet here, do hereby
      ordain that when fifty planets and blah blah blah blah. Kind of
      lacks the poetry of the Founding Fathers.
      TRANCE: Founding Fathers. You know, I've never understood that. If
      they found it, it was already there, so how could they be its
      father?
      HARPER: It's complicated to explain. Here, we'll do you. I
      TRANCE: Trance Gemini.
      HARPER: The Sparkly Purple Babe of. I still don't even know what
      planet you're from.
      TRANCE: Oh, really. So, do you think the Arazians were big
      supporters of the Commonwealth in Dylan's day?
      HARPER: What are your people called, Trance?
      TRANCE: It's not a secret or anything. It's just I don't think
      you'd be able to pronounce it.
      HARPER: Well, a translation will be just fine.
      TRANCE: Okay. Er, it translates as Exalted Love Machines.
      HARPER: Why do I even try?
      TRANCE: So, what do you think? Will the Arazians sign on?
      HARPER: Your guess is as good as mine. Actually it's probably
      better.

      [Council chamber]

      (Hunt is at a podium in full uniform. Rommie stands behind and to
      his right.)
      HUNT: My mission is simple. It's to restore the Systems
      Commonwealth to the glory that it was. It's not for myself. It's
      not even for you. It's for everyone. For every planet, a voice. For
      every voice, an ear. A government of the people, by the people and
      for the people.
      (Three beings shrouded in red dustsheets make up the council. The
      top one gurgles the reply.)
      MIN: Pretty words, Captain Hunt, but the Systems Commonwealth is
      three hundred years gone.
      HUNT: To me, it was only yesterday. Yesterday that peace and
      prosperity were the birthright of all sentient beings. Yesterday
      that a million worlds were able to
      MIN: Now you're exaggerating.
      ROMMIE: Actually, Councillor, there were one million, twenty two
      thousand, three hundred and forty seven member worlds in the
      Systems Commonwealth. Arazia was inducted in 6740, the seventeenth
      planet in the local cluster to
      HUNT: That's okay, Rommie. I'm sure the High Council is aware of
      Arazia's long and warm relationship with the Commonwealth.
      MIN: Long it may have been. Warm it was not. You've missed a great
      deal, Captain. You've missed seeing this world plundered by
      Nietzscheans. You've missed the Magog invasions, the famines, the
      years when civil war and anarchy raged unchecked. You've slept
      through it all, but we did not. You've picked the wrong planet.
      Dylan Hunt, you have agitated against the government of Arazia.
      This court finds you guilty of sedition. You are hereby sentenced
      to life in prison.
      (Two guards stun Hunt and Rommie.)
      MIN: Meeting adjourned.

      [Command]

      BEKA: What do you mean, you lost them?
      ANDROMEDA [on viewscreen]: The minute they stepped into the Council
      Chamber, I lost the signal. That was yesterday.
      TYR: Sounds like a hostage situation to me. Ship, arm bomb tubes
      one through twenty for a warning strike outside the Arazian
      capital.
      BEKA: Okay, reality check? What if they're starting a third course
      of a state dinner? Blowing up the countryside would probably not
      help our situation.
      TYR: Or Dylan is already dead, in which case we haven't a thing to
      lose.
      ANDROMEDA [on viewscreen]: In the old days, we had a way of dealing
      with situations like this. We talked to people.
      BEKA: Contact Councillor Min.
      (A being wearing a red dust sheet comes onscreen.)
      RECEPTIONIST [on viewscreen]: Councillor Min's office. How do you
      wish to be announced?
      BEKA: This is Beka Valentine of the starship Andromeda Ascendant.
      I'm looking for our captain, Dylan Hunt. He was meeting with the
      High Council.
      RECEPTIONIST [on viewscreen]: I'm sorry I can't help you.
      BEKA: Okay, maybe I should speak to the Councillor directly.
      RECEPTIONIST [on viewscreen]: Do you have an appointment?
      TYR: We don't make appointments.
      RECEPTIONIST [on viewscreen]: Councillor Min doesn't talk to anyone
      without an appointment.
      BEKA: I am standing at the helm of a High Guard battleship orbiting
      your planet. Two words from me and a barrage of kinetic warheads
      will blast you, Councillor Min, and three generations of Arazians
      back to the Stone Age.
      RECEPTIONIST [on viewscreen]: I think you still need an
      appointment.
      (Transmission ends)
      TYR: Now can we blow them up?

      [Warden's office]

      (A small ship arrives at another planet. Hunt is brought in,
      shackled, to a bald man standing at a set of consoles. He doesn't
      look at Hunt.)
      WARDEN: This is Re-education Center Helios Nine. I am Sector Three
      Deputy, this institution's governing artificial intelligence. You
      will address my avatars as Warden. Your food ration disc
      HUNT: Where's Rommie?
      (The Warden finally pays him attention.)
      WARDEN: Excuse me?
      HUNT: The woman who was with me. Where is she?
      WARDEN: The women are processed separately from the men.
      HUNT: She hasn't done anything wrong. I haven't done anything
      wrong. We're innocent.
      WARDEN: Your food ration disc will activate any of our conveniently
      located vending machines. You will receive high protein kibble
      sufficient for twenty four hours and twenty four hours only. Do not
      attempt to re-use your disc. Do not share it with anyone, and do
      not lose it. Because without your daily ration, you will die. Any
      questions?
      HUNT: Yes. How do I file an appeal?
      WARDEN: You're very funny, prisoner. My only goal is the smooth and
      efficient operation of this facility. As long as you don't impede
      that, feel free to amuse the general population.
      (The Deputy presses a button and Hunt's shackles drop to the floor.
      He takes the small disc from the Deputy then prisoner 11-7723 walks
      through to)

      [Compound]

      (Bright orange sunshine and a large area. One man draws a sword
      when he sees Hunt. The various aliens turn to watch, also hefting
      various weapons, and a pair of automatic machine guns gets the
      situation in its sights.)
      HUNT: Cozy.
      ALL: Newbie. Newbie. Newbie. Newbie. Newbie. (etc, etc.)
      (Some one whistles and they fall silent. A young woman in a leather
      mini-dress walks up.)
      KAE-LEE: Cork it! The newbie'll think we're savages. Welcome to
      hell, Mister er
      HUNT: You can call me Hunt.
      KAE-LEE: Ooo. Tough guy. I'm impressed. How about a traditional
      inmate greeting for Mister Hunt.
      (One inmate grabs Hunt from behind as another approaches from the
      front. Hunt kicks the second to the floor and headbutts then
      punches out the first. He stops when someone holds a sharp axe to
      his throat. Kae-Lee reaches into his overall pocket.)
      KAE-LEE: Don't mind me. (takes the ration disc.) Gorgeous, isn't
      it? I love it when they're new and shiny.
      HUNT: The Warden told me not to share that thing. Something about
      starving to death.
      KAE-LEE: Well, sorry, but there isn't enough to go around, and
      well, some of us want seconds. Tell you what, though. You can try
      to win it back!
      (A big hairy alien comes forward, growling. The inmates all chant
      fight! fight!)
      HUNT: I take it formal debate's not an option.

      [Jessa's tent]

      (A woman is watching all this on a monitor in a woodland area. She
      has an electronics workbench.)
      JESSA: Uppercut! Uppercut! Come on, he's got a glass jaw! Oh, come
      on! Pathetic. Xax is going to shred him in a second.

      [Command]

      BEKA: All in favour of making an appointment with the High Council?
      (No one.)
      BEKA: That's what I figured.
      HARPER: Hey! Maybe we're overreacting. Come on! Okay, look. If I
      went missing with that fine looking piece of machinery I wouldn't
      want to be found.
      TRANCE: Well, it's not like that with Dylan and Rommie.
      HOLO-ROMMIE: Wait. I'm detecting infrared plumes near the equator.
      HARPER: Infrared plumes? Like from a missile launch?
      HOLO-ROMMIE: Very much like.
      (Bang!)
      BEKA: Evasive manoeuvres! Andromeda, activate the point defense
      lasers and get us out of here.
      TRANCE: What about Dylan?
      TYR: We can't help him if we're dead.
      (More bangs.)
      HARPER: And Dylan can take care of himself.

      [Compound]

      (The fight continues, which Dylan being thrown around. He finally
      lands in a crate of nuts, thinks, then tips them onto the ground.)
      HUNT: Hey! Come on, you oversized goat! Take another shot!
      (Xax runs at Hunt, who sidesteps and lets Xax skid on the nuts. He
      falls to his knees and Hunt kicks his back, knocking him out
      against a handy ladder. The inmates cheer. Kae-Lee whistles for
      silence.)
      KAE-LEE: Nice work. No one's ever taken Xax before.
      HUNT: No, really?
      KAE-LEE: I think you'll make a nice addition to the inmate
      community. What do you say, boys?
      ALL: Yeah!
      KAE-LEE: Come, sit with me.
      HUNT: Look, miss, I appreciate
      KAE-LEE: Kae-Lee.
      HUNT: Kae-Lee. I appreciate the, er, hospitality, but I don't plan
      on being here long.
      KAE-LEE: Hmm. Let me guess. You're innocent.
      HUNT: Would it make any difference?
      KAE-LEE: Not likely. There are no return tickets from Hell Nine. So
      sit, eat, and count yourself lucky I favour men with blue eyes.
      HUNT: Lucky me. Thanks, but I'll pass.
      KAE-LEE: Don't be so hasty. If you're not hungry, at least stick
      around for the after dinner entertainment.
      (A covered cage is wheeled out, then the tarpaulin removed to
      reveal Rommie. Time passes.)
      KAE-LEE: And the clock on the wall says dinner time! Open the
      doors. Let the outsiders in.
      (The gates open and people carrying ration bowls come in.)
      KAE-LEE: Hey, single file. You know the drill. How you doing, tough
      guy?
      HUNT: Are they getting enough food? They don't look too healthy.
      KAE-LEE: If they were too healthy, they'd be a worse pain than they
      already are.
      HUNT: What gives you the right to treat them like this?
      KAE-LEE: I give me the right. Look, around here, there's only three
      roles you can play. You can be a wolf, you can be a sheep, or you
      can be a corpse. Which are you?
      (A fight breaks out. Kae-Lee goes over to sort it out, leaving Hunt
      alone.)
      KAE-LEE: Hey! You don't want to get on my last nerve, all right?
      (Hunt activates his sub-dermal comm. so they can talk without
      appearing to be in contact.)
      HUNT: Rommie, you okay?
      ROMMIE: What happened? Where are we?
      HUNT: Some kind of correctional facility. Can you get a fix on our
      position from your astrogation program?
      ROMMIE: No. We must not be anywhere near the ship. I can't access
      any data. I can't contact my mainframe. I can't even recharge my
      batteries. I'm useless.
      HUNT: Don't worry. I'll get us out of here.
      ROMMIE: Forget about me. I'll only slow you down.
      HUNT: I'm not leaving without you.
      ROMMIE: You may not have any choice. With no maintenance and no
      power, in a few days this body will be nothing but spare parts.

      [Command]

      TRANCE: We can't just run and hide. Give me a shuttlecraft and send
      me down to that planet and I will have Dylan and Rommie back here
      by breakfast.
      HARPER: I don't know.
      TRANCE: One forcelance, Harper. Come on, you know you can trust me
      with a forcelance.
      HARPER: Trance, the last time I gave you a weapon, you started a
      chain reaction on Gertrude Elian Drift. Dumped the main power grid.
      TRANCE: Well, it was in a good way.
      HARPER: It's too risky. If Dylan isn't in trouble, and remember, we
      don't know that he is, an outright attack could definitely put him
      in harm's way.
      TRANCE: Well then, I'll go undercover. I'll be practically
      invisible. You know I can.
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: It's too late for that.
      HARPER: Why do you say that?
      ANDROMEDA [on viewscreen]: I just intercepted a classified
      transmission in the data stream. Two anti-government activists were
      shipped off-world at the same time we lost contact. Dylan and my
      humanoid body aren't on Arazia any more. They've been sent to a
      prison colony.

      [Compound]

      (Jessa hands over her bowl for her rations.)
      XAX: Hey, Jessa. What's fourteen times thirty two?
      JESSA: Same as yesterday, Xax.
      XAX: Fifty two times forty seven. Come on. Fifty two times forty
      seven.
      JESSA: Twenty four forty four. Can I have my supper, please, or do
      you need me to calculate pi for you, too?
      (Jessa snatches back her bowl, now half filled with the nuts.)
      HUNT: Let the lady have her meal.
      JESSA: Who asked you?
      HUNT: Just trying to help.
      JESSA: Newbie, right? You've been here for, what, five minutes?
      I've been here my entire life. I can take care of myself.
      (Jessa walks off. Later, Kae-Lee is overseeing a knife fight
      between two women.)
      KAE-LEE: Cut her! Cut her! So, what do you think of the floor show?
      HUNT: Not much.
      KAE-LEE: You know, this whole suffering innocent act is getting
      kind of boring.
      HUNT: That's why I'm not the floor show.
      KAE-LEE: No one here is innocent, only justified.
      HUNT: What about you?
      KAE-LEE: Me?
      HUNT: Yeah. What are you guilty of?
      KAE-LEE: Oh, I was born guilty. No one leaves Hell, remember? Once
      you're transported here, you're here for the rest of your life.
      Mate and reproduce, your kids are here for the rest of their lives,
      and so on, and so on.
      HUNT: There are people here who haven't even committed a crime?
      KAE-LEE: Oh, I doubt that. It's hard to go a day without breaking
      one of the Warden's rules.
      HUNT: That's not what I mean.
      KAE-LEE: I know what you mean. I'm not stupid. I also know that
      criminal behaviour's hard-wired. It's diagnosable and inherited.
      When I said I belonged here, I meant it.
      HUNT: Maybe you're not as smart as I though.
      KAE-LEE: Excuse me?
      HUNT: Your argument is flawed. Speaking French ran in families,
      too. Does that mean there's a French speaking gene?
      KAE-LEE: You've come to the wrong place to argue nature versus
      nurture, Mister Hunt.
      (The knife fight ends.)
      TANNOY: Security alert. Security alert. Perimeter integrity has
      been compromised. Activating auto-defence system.
      (A group of little ornithopters fly over the walls and start
      shooting at barrels. You can tell they are ornithopters because
      they are flapping four insect wings.)
      HUNT: What's going on?
      KAE-LEE: We're under attack. Move it! Move it! The food! Guard the
      food! Move it!
      (Kae-Lee leaves Hunt, and Jessa grabs his arm.)
      JESSA: Shush. Cork it. I'm going to get you out of here, okay?
      HUNT: No, no, not without Rommie.
      (He uses his comm.)
      HUNT: Are you okay?
      ROMMIE: Probably better than you.
      JESSA: Implanted sub vocal mike. Cool. Look, tell her to hang back
      and left.
      HUNT: Whoa, what are you doing?
      JESSA: I'm not going to hurt your girlfriend.
      HUNT: She's not my girlfriend.
      (While the ornithopters keep the inmates busy, Jessa throws a smoke
      grenade next to Rommie's cage. Hunt and Jessa run over, and Jessa
      unlocks the cage.)
      JESSA: This way.
      HUNT: All right, Rommie. Let's go.
      (Kae-Lee sees the three run out of the gate.)

      [Control room]

      TRANCE: Andromeda, are you there?
      ANDROMEDA [on monitor]: Of course. You know, you don't have to come
      to a control room to talk to me. I'm everywhere.
      TRANCE: I know. It's just more personal this way.
      ANDROMEDA [on monitor]: You're worried, aren't you? About Dylan?
      TRANCE: Not just about Dylan. You too.
      ANDROMEDA [on monitor]: Me?
      TRANCE: Well, this morning I ordered bacon and eggs for breakfast,
      and the auto-chef gave me Draconian fish ova. And Beka asked you to
      play some rock music from her collection, and you played a volcanic
      eruption on Terra Bella Minor.
      (A mini Holo-Rommie appears.)
      HOLO-ROMMIE: I have been a little distracted lately.
      TRANCE: It's your humanoid body, isn't it?
      ANDROMEDA [on monitor]: It's just another avatar.
      TRANCE: Is it really?
      HOLO-ROMMIE: Trance, at any given time, I'm a hundred robots, a
      dozen androids, a fleet of drones.
      ANDROMEDA [on monitor]: They're peripheral bodies. Useful and
      disposable. I've sent fighters on kamikaze missions.
      HOLO-ROMMIE: And I've had drones melt in planetary cores.
      TRANCE: But this is different. You said to Beka that Rommie was
      more like an extension of yourself.
      ANDROMEDA [on monitor]: Like my left hand.
      TRANCE: Well, I don't know about you, but if I lost my left hand, I
      wouldn't be very happy.
      HOLO-ROMMIE: No. No, you wouldn't.
      TRANCE: Hang in there. It'll be okay.

      [Command]

      HARPER: Here's the deal. Arazia does not have a lot of interstellar
      traffic.
      TYR: Despite their famous hospitality.
      HARPER: Only three ships have gone off-world since we got here. I
      tracked their navigational signals and extrapolated their
      destinations. Thank you. One went to a mining colony. Two has
      already gone back to Arazia. So, the shell with the pea under it is
      right here.
      BEKA: Nice work, Harper. Saddle up, gang, we're doing a jail-break.

      [Jessa's tent]

      JESSA: It's kibble-porridge. Don't worry, you'll get used to it.
      For lunch, there's, er, kibble-patties, and for dessert,
      kibble-cake.
      (Hunt drinks from a wooden bowl.)
      HUNT: Oh, don't tell me. Er, kibble-vinegar?
      JESSA: It's supposed to be wine. Too sour? Well, it'll get better
      with age.
      HUNT: Yeah. Maybe.

      [Forest]

      (Hunt goes outside, stiff and sore from the recent fights.)
      HUNT: I don't get it. Aren't these terraforming pines?
      JESSA: If you say so.
      HUNT: If this planet was terraformed, there must be something here
      you can eat.
      JESSA: Well, maybe they didn't finish the job. All I know is the
      soil pH is wrong. There's too much alkali. If you try eating this
      stuff, it'll burn a hole in your guts. And even if you can stomach
      it, it's lacking vital nutrients. It's one of the ways they control
      the prisoners.
      HUNT: And the inmates control the food distribution centre.
      JESSA: The strong get stronger and the weak get weaker. What about
      her?
      HUNT: She's an android. She doesn't need any food.
      JESSA: She's running on fumes, right?
      HUNT: She's conserving power. I don't know how much longer she has.
      JESSA: Well, all the more reason for you to help me, then.
      HUNT: Help you do what?
      JESSA: Whip the inmates' butts, of course. Oh, why do you think I
      helped rescue you?
      HUNT: Er, because we're innocent? Because you wanted to help us?
      JESSA: You sure do have some warm, fuzzy ideas about convicted
      felons.
      HUNT: You want me to help you fight Kae-Lee's men. I'm sorry, I
      can't do that.
      JESSA: Why not? You've seen them. You know what they're like.
      Kae-Lee. There's three types of people around here. Wolves, sheep,
      and corpses. Which one are you?
      HUNT: None of the above. Kae-Lee's gang aren't the only inmates on
      Helios. If I help you run her out, how long would it be before
      another gang comes along and starts the whole cycle all over again?
      It's the system that's wrong. You shouldn't even be here. Let me
      help you leave this place.
      JESSA: Leave this place? Yeah, right. Come on.
      (Hunt follows Jessa from her tent. She uses a remote control to
      activate an ornithopter. Once it gets above the trees, something
      shoots it down.)
      JESSA: Smart missiles. The whole planet is circled by an automated
      defence system. Nothing goes up, nothing comes down. I am not going
      anywhere, and neither are you.
      HUNT: Great.

      [Compound]

      (Kae-Lee is working on a multi-shot bow when -)
      TANNOY: Lock down. Security lock down. All prisoners will await
      security personnel and maintain passive presence. Return to lock
      down.
      (A Warden walks over to Kae-Lee and holds up the remains of an
      ornithopter.)
      WARDEN: Where did this come from?
      KAE-LEE: How should I know?
      WARDEN: This technology is illegal. Manufacturing it is a capital
      offence.
      KAE-LEE: Hey, Warden, I'm your biggest fan. If I had a clue, I'd
      give it to you.
      WARDEN: Not good enough.
      (It takes her bow and points it at her throat.)
      WARDEN: Who made it?
      KAE-LEE: Hey, I've got arteries in that neck.
      WARDEN: Most organics do. This prison only runs smoothly when we
      are in accord, when we abide by the rules for our common good.
      KAE-LEE: And your point is?
      WARDEN: I'm surprised at you, Kae-Lee. The outsiders are no friends
      of yours. I'm sure I don't have to tell you the consequences for
      non-cooperation.
      TANNOY: Prisoner resistance neutralised.

      [Command]

      BEKA: I'm transiting into normal space now.
      TYR: I thought you said the prison colony would be here.
      HARPER: I did. The coordinates led right here.
      TYR: I can usually spot a planet. They're large. I have good eyes.
      HARPER: I don't know. The navigational data from the colony
      transport must have been a false signature. Part of the prison
      security system.
      BEKA: Okay, now I'm mad. Andromeda, I want you to access the Maru's
      databanks. I want all the documentation we have on penal systems in
      this area. I need lists of mining camps, exile worlds, prison
      colonies. Anything like that.
      ANDROMEDA [on viewscreen]: Processing. Data retrieved.
      (It is a very long list.)
      HARPER: Oh, you got to be kidding me.

      [Jessa's tent]

      HUNT: How are you doing, Rommie?
      ROMMIE: Conserving power.
      HUNT: Ah. So this is a bad time for the song and dance number.
      ROMMIE: Stop. It drains my batteries when I laugh.
      JESSA: Sorry, I didn't know you wanted to be alone.
      HUNT: Not at all. What's that?
      JESSA: Gee, let's see. Dirt? The soil's alkaline. My attempt at
      making wine, as you noticed, is acid, and I have a workbench full
      of metal.
      ROMMIE: A voltaic battery.
      HUNT: That's not bad.
      JESSA: Give me a day, and I'll have your robot girlfriend up and
      running.
      HUNT: I'll explain the many ways in which you are wrong while we
      work.

      [Command]

      BEKA: That's a lot of jails.
      TYR: A lot of worlds, a lot of trash.
      HARPER: I never got the whole prison thing. Hey, you have the
      potential to be a nasty piece of work. Why don't we lock you up
      with a serious bunch of hard cases and get you really good at it.
      TYR: They're sociopaths. It makes sense to remove them from the
      gene pool.
      BEKA: Well, you'd know.
      HOLO-ROMMIE: I don't understand. Law enforcement is less effective
      now than it was in the days of the Commonwealth, and yet, there are
      more re-education centres, not less.
      TYR: Re-education centres.
      HARPER: Maybe Commonwealth prisons were really re-education
      colonies but these places today? It's all private companies now.
      And the bean-counters have two words for their guests. File and
      forget.
      (Trance enters.)
      TRANCE: Hey, did you find them? Can we go get Dylan and Rommie?
      HARPER: It's not that easy, Trance. Three spiral galaxies, dozens
      of galactic clusters. There's got to be hundreds of prison planets.
      HOLO-ROMMIE: Three hundred and forty eight, to be exact.
      TRANCE: Really. What about that one.
      BEKA: Why? Why that one?
      TRANCE: Well, it's pretty.
      TYR: It's pretty. Now there's a solid reason to risk our lives.
      HARPER: You have a better idea?
      TYR: No.
      HARPER: Well, we have to start somewhere, and it's as good a planet
      as any.

      [Jessa's tent]

      JESSA: Can you hand me that scorcher?
      HUNT: The what?
      JESSA: The scorcher. That metal faceplate thingy. They put it on
      convicts who act up. It gets real hot real fast.
      HUNT: They torture you?
      JESSA: We're in hell, remember?
      HUNT: Why do you put up with it, Jessa? You're smart, you're
      resourceful.
      JESSA: And I'm a beautiful princess and you're going to take me
      away from all this, right? What do you know about me? What do you
      know about my life?
      HUNT: I know you didn't do anything to deserve it.
      JESSA: Well, let me tell you about this place. They disinfect your
      arm before they give you a lethal injection, but my mom died in
      childbirth because there wasn't enough soap to go around. We're not
      people, we're inventory. They treat us like animals. They set me
      and my sister at each other's throats. They strip away our humanity
      every chance they get. So I wish you wouldn't go painting pretty
      pictures in my head. You stay sane around here by keeping your head
      down and not keeping your hopes up.
      (Guards enter the camp, shooting indiscriminately.)
      GUARD: Illegal technology detected. Surrender or be destroyed. Do
      not interfere.
      (A guard throws a person to the ground and shoots them.)
      HUNT: Wait here.
      (Hunt tries to tackle a guard, but is thrown off. He tries using a
      tree branch, but it breaks on the guard's armour and he gets
      tasered.)
      GUARD: Resistance is not tolerated. Resister has been subdued.
      (A guard grabs Jessa and puts her over his shoulder.)
      JESSA: No! No! No! Put me down!
      GUARD: Take subject for interrogation.
      JESSA: Put me down! Dylan!
      (Later)
      HUNT: How are you doing on power, Rommie?
      ROMMIE: Not so good. How're you doing on my battery?
      HUNT: Not so good. You know I have to go get her, right?
      ROMMIE: I was afraid of that. It's a high security prison.
      Automated defence systems, robot guards, lethal force.
      HUNT: I need her. Without her help, I'll lose you. Your humanoid
      body will die.
      ROMMIE: My humanoid body is expendable, you aren't. Dylan, you're
      the only hope for restoring the Systems Commonwealth. This is a
      suicide mission. In a risk-benefit ratio, there's not one good
      argument in its favour.
      HUNT: I'll give you one. Jessa.
      ROMMIE: She's just one person. You can help millions.
      HUNT: The greatest good for the greatest number, is that it? It's
      never that simple.
      WARDEN [OC]: It's simple. All I want is the greatest good for the
      greatest number.

      [Interrogation room]

      (Jessa is fastened to metal couch.)
      WARDEN: The majority of prisoners benefit from the smooth and
      efficient operation of the system. You are disrupting it. Why can't
      I make you understand that?
      JESSA: Poor communication skills?
      WARDEN: Who helped you make the weapons?
      JESSA: What do you mean, who helped me?
      WARDEN: You are here because you're genetically flawed. You are
      descended from pirates, thieves, and terrorists. You are incapable
      of higher thought. An outside agitator must have assisted you. I
      ask you again: Who?
      JESSA: You may torture me if you would like, but please, don't
      insult me!
      WARDEN: If you prefer.
      (It slides a control up, and electricity zaps Jessa's head.)

      [Command]

      HARPER: No way. I think she picked it. Hey, guys, check this out. I
      got a signal. It's faint, but it's definitely in the EM spectrum of
      Rommie's locator beacon.
      BEKA: Can you intercept their radio traffic? Is Dylan down there
      with her?
      HARPER: I can't. There is a lot of interference in the atmosphere.
      TYR: It's a prison. They don't want to hear from the outside.
      BEKA: Well, they're going to hear from us. Get us in closer. We're
      going to broadcast a message they can't ignore.
      HARPER: Which is?
      BEKA: Let my people go.
      HARPER: Hey, catchy. I like it.
      TYR: I think it's ridiculous. You trumpet your arrival to your
      enemies? For what? So they can aim their biggest guns at you?
      BEKA: Fine. We'll sneak in. You're a good tactician, Tyr, but one
      hell of a wet blanket.

      [Compound]

      (Hunt peers round the gate to see Kay-Lee and Xax playing with
      knives.)
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Dylan, if you can hear me, we have a fix on my
      humanoid body. Beka and Tyr are coming down in the Eureka Maru.
      They should enter atmosphere in approximately fifteen minutes.

      [Jessa's tent]

      ROMMIE: No. No. Abort mission. Abort mission. Weapons fire at low
      altitude. Do not approach. Do not approach.

      [Compound]

      HUNT: No! Don't come down!
      XAX: Who are you talking to?
      HUNT: You, Xax. I was saying don't come down to me, that I would
      come to you, ha?
      (Hunt dodges Xax's swing.)
      KAE-LEE: Cork it! I see you decided to come back.
      HUNT: I, I need to talk to you. What's happening here is wrong. We
      need to work together. You have to help me.
      KAE-LEE: Help you what?
      HUNT: Rescue Jessa.
      KAE-LEE: Why would I risk my life for an outsider?
      HUNT: Because the outsiders aren't your enemy. It's the system that
      needs to be defeated. But most of all, because Jessa is your
      sister. Isn't she?

      [Eureka Maru]

      TYR: What's our ETA?
      BEKA: Any minute now.

      [Jessa's tent]

      ROMMIE: They're all going to die. Dylan's going to die.
      (The Eureka Maru enters the atmosphere.)
      ROMMIE: Please go back. They can't hear me.

      [Compound]

      HUNT: Kae-Lee, wait.
      KAE-LEE: I'm not having this conversation.
      HUNT: You can't just let her die.
      KAE-LEE: So what if she's my sister? That stuff means jack around
      here.
      HUNT: I don't believe you. You're not that cold, Kae-Lee. I mean
      this is a hard place, and you've made yourself hard to survive it,
      but you are not cruel by nature, no matter what the Warden tells
      you. You're here because the system says you're a criminal even if
      you never committed a crime. That your genes are bad, you're
      broken. I mean come on, you believe that? It's the system that's
      broken.
      KAE-LEE: That's where you're wrong. The system's not broken. It's
      working exactly the way they want it to.
      HUNT: Well, in that case, let's break it.
      KAE-LEE: Now you're talking my language.

      [Eureka Maru]

      (Alarms go off.)
      TYR: What was that?
      BEKA: Could be debris, could be hail, could be somebody shooting at
      us.

      [Compound]

      TANNOY: Warning, seditious conversation. Disperse immediately or
      fatal force will be exercised.
      HUNT: Show time.
      (The automatic machine guns open fire. The inmates take cover.
      Meanwhile, Rommie hauls herself over to Jessa's work bench and
      plunges her hands into the dirt batteries.)
      HUNT: You stay here. I'll draw their fire.
      (Xax runs out instead. He makes it to the door to the Warden's
      office and prises it open as a hail of bullets hit his back.)
      KAE-LEE: Xax!
      TANNOY: Initial incursion terminated.
      HUNT: It's now or never.
      (Hunt and Kae-Lee run inside, over Xax's dead body.)

      [Interrogation room]

      HUNT: Jessa!
      JESSA: You came.
      WARDEN: This area is off-limits.
      HUNT: I'll take care of him.
      (The warden throws Hunt across the room, knocking him out.)
      WARDEN: This avatar is fully equipped to deal with prison riots and
      other annoyances.

      [Eureka Maru]

      TYR: That's not debris, that's from weapons fire. Turn around.
      BEKA: No, I can handle this. Besides, the vectored thrust engines
      are offline. Like it or not, we're going in.

      [Interrogation room]

      WARDEN: You surprise me. You know the consequences for unauthorised
      entry.
      KAE-LEE: I'll show you unauthorised entry.
      (Kae-Lee shoots an arrow into the Warden. It breaks it off, strides
      over to Kae-Lee and snaps her neck.)
      JESSA: No! No! No. Kae-Lee!
      (Hunt wakes up. The Warden points a gun at him.)
      WARDEN: Who do you think you are to come here and upset the
      efficient operation of my facility. The rules are very specific.
      The penalty for infraction is death.
      (Rommie runs in and leaps onto the Warden, knocking him down. Hunt
      picks up his gun.)
      HUNT: Rommie, the control panel.
      ROMMIE: Sorry I'm late.
      HUNT: You're forgiven.
      WARDEN: Go ahead. Shoot me.
      HUNT: You're the Warden.
      (The shot has little effect.)
      WARDEN: You can't stop me.
      HUNT: No, but she can.
      ROMMIE: Time for an upgrade.
      (The Warden's head explodes. Jessa is freed from the couch.)
      TANNOY: Critical systems failure. Critical systems failure.
      JESSA: Kae-Lee. Kae-Lee. Oh. She's my sister.
      HUNT: I know.
      JESSA: I'm so sorry. This is all my fault. I am so sorry.
      KAE-LEE: Cork it, kiddo. It's okay. I'm free now.
      (Kae-Lee dies.)
      JESSA: Kae-Lee.
      ROMMIE: Dylan. The air defence system. The Eureka Maru.
      (Rommie runs out of power. Hunt goes to the console.)
      COMPUTER: Authorisation denied.

      [Eureka Maru]

      COMPUTER: Alert. Incoming weapons fire.
      TYR: All right, what? Should we eject?
      BEKA: No. Not in this. Come on, baby, you can do it.

      [Warden's office]

      HUNT: Come on.
      COMPUTER: Authorisation denied.
      HUNT: Come on!

      [Eureka Maru]

      BEKA: It stopped. Looks like someone deactivated the defence
      system.
      HUNT [OC]: Eureka Maru, you are clear to land.
      TYR: Dylan.
      BEKA: You know, I'm starting to like that guy.

      [Compound]

      HUNT: I meant what I said. You don't have to stay here. We can take
      you with us.
      JESSA: No. I think I'll stay. I mean, for the re-education centre.
      They don't do a lot of educating around here, you know. Most of the
      inmates can't even do basic algebra, so
      HUNT: I have a feeling you can teach them a lot more than that.
      JESSA: Well, check back in a few years. You won't be able to
      recognise this place. Or me.
      (An awkward pause, then Jessa kisses Hunt.)
      HUNT: Goodbye.

      [Observation deck]

      (Dylan is tossing his ration disc when Trance enters.)
      TRANCE: You wanted to see me?
      HUNT: Yes, I did.
      TRANCE: What's that?
      HUNT: Oh, this is an old Earth game. This side's heads, this side's
      tails. I flip it in the air, you call it: Heads or tails.
      TRANCE: Tails.
      HUNT: Heads. You lose.
      TRANCE: What do I lose?
      HUNT: Oh, it's just a figure of speech. I understand that you were
      the one who found us. You know, that's a million to one shot.
      TRANCE: No, it was only one in three hundred and forty eight.
      HUNT: Is that all it was? A lucky guess.
      TRANCE: Exactly. A lucky guess.
      HUNT: Yeah. I just wanted to say thanks.
      TRANCE: You're welcome.
      (Hunt tosses the disc to Trance and leaves. Trance starts tossing
      the disc.)
      TRANCE: Heads. Tails.
      (She gets it right every time.)
      TRANCE: Heads. Tails. Tails. Heads. Heads.

<Back to the episode listing

Andromeda and related marks are trademarks of Tribune Company. Copyright   2000
- 2005. The web pages on this site are for educational and entertainment
purposes only. All other copyrights property of their respective holders.

