 

The Mathematics of Tears

Original Airdate: 29 Jan, 2001

                      If hope is the engine of the soul,
                          Then duty is the navigator
                             And love is the fuel.

                         High Guard Supreme Commander
                                Sani nax Rifati
                         Persuasions and Exhortations
                                 circa CY 4279

      [Command]

      (Harper is in the slipstream chair, reading a flexi.)
      HARPER: (reading) I know I'm supposed to meet you at Yoso Drift.
      Here it comes. She met a guy. But that was before I found out the
      mandelbrots are spawning on Ornithone.
      BEKA: Ah. Trance and her pets.
      HARPER: It only happens once a century, so I thought you might
      understand.
      BEKA: Once a century? Wow, they get less action than you, Harper.
      HARPER: Ha, ha. No, they don't.
      HUNT: Anything else?
      HARPER: Er, love Trance. P.S. Pick me up in two weeks.
      HUNT: Two weeks. Ha, it's amazing. She must think this is her own
      personal cruise ship.
      BEKA: We always ran this kind of stuff fast and loose on the Maru.
      HUNT: This isn't the Maru.
      (Hunt leaves, Beka follows.)

      [Corridor]

      BEKA: What's gotten into you?
      HUNT: Rev Bem's retreats, Harper's surfing competitions, Trance's
      field trips. I'm a little tired of running around the universe
      picking up this crew from their vacations.
      BEKA: You're upset we don't salute and ask your permission to
      disembark?
      HUNT: Don't trivialise this, Beka. I need a crew I can depend on.
      BEKA: Trance has been busting her purple tail updating Andromeda's
      xenobiology program. So she took a little unauthorised vacation
      time.
      HUNT: It's called going AWOL. In the old days, that would mean two
      weeks in the brig.
      BEKA: The brig.
      HUNT: A properly run ship has structure, rules. In three years of
      captaining the Andromeda, I never had anyone go AWOL. Not once. But
      this crew, they constantly put their own personal interests above
      the good of the mission.
      BEKA: All this crew has ever known has been their own personal
      interests. Keeping themselves alive has been their mission their
      entire lives. If they need a little time off, I'd say they'd earned
      it.
      (Beka leaves.)
      HUNT: Earned it, my ass.

      [Hunt's quarters]

      HUNT: I have to keep reminding myself they signed on for three hots
      and a cot, you know, not a mission. Not my mission. Civilisation,
      order, progress, may sound good to them, but they have no idea how
      to operate in an environment like that.
      ROMMIE: They have good hearts.
      HUNT: Yeah, yeah. I know I should lighten up.
      ROMMIE: The Systems Commonwealth wasn't built in a day.
      (Door chime)
      BEKA [OC]: Dylan, may I come in?
      (Beka enters.)
      HUNT: Hi.
      BEKA: Hi. I was thinking. Since we're on our way to Ornithone, you
      might want to look at this.
      (Beka hands Hunt a flexi.)
      BEKA: It's Gerentex's list of derelict High Guard ships, or
      suspected ones, anyway.
      HUNT: More ships like the Andromeda?
      BEKA: Salvaging a High Guard ship of the line was an obsession for
      him. We looked at five other possibilities before we found you, but
      there are over thirty more leads.
      HUNT: If this is an attempt to make nice, it worked.

      [Command]

      HARPER: You want to hunting for the ghost ship of Tau Ceti Six?
      BEKA: Harper, we spent four months checking out those old wrecks.
      What's wrong with that ship?
      HARPER: What? Every salvage mission that's been to this system has
      disappeared. Even those old pirates out at Winnipeg Drift say it's
      cursed.
      HUNT: Cursed.
      HARPER: Yes, cursed. It glitters like gold, but if you see it, you
      never come back.
      BEKA: That's a myth!
      HARPER: Andromeda was a myth.
      HUNT: Hey, one with a happy ending. Now maybe lightening will
      strike twice.
      (They enter a densely packed asteroid belt.)
      BEKA: This is weird. Our star charts don't show any asteroid belts
      in this system. We should be approaching the planet Herodotus, but
      it's not here.
      HARPER: That's because it's a ghost planet haunted by a ghost ship.
      (Static comes over the comm.)
      HARPER: You see?
      BEKA: That's a voice transmission.
      HUNT: Where's it coming from?
      BEKA: I don't know. I can't triangulate its source.
      HUNT: Patch it through.
      VOICE [OC]: No tears. No tears.
      HARPER: Oh, great. Disembodied voices and nothing to send them.
      (Then they see an intact golden starship just like Andromeda.)
      HUNT: That's a High Guard starship.
      HARPER: It glitters gold.
      VOICE [OC]: No tears.

      [Eureka Maru]

      HUNT: I know that ship.
      ROMMIE: The Pax Magellanic.
      BEKA: She looks just like you, Rommie.
      HARPER: Yeah. Only gold.
      ROMMIE: She's my older sister.
      HUNT: In a manner of speaking. The Pax Magellanic is one of the
      High Guard's first Glorious Heritage class cruisers.
      ROMMIE: Everyone looked up to her. On her first mission, she saved
      Princess Sukarhit's yacht from a Magog attack. She was honoured by
      triumvirs and empresses, but now
      HUNT: Don't worry, Rommie. Your sister may be damaged, but we are
      going to save her.

      [Pax cargo bay]

      ROMMIE: Her deck plan is the same as mine. We should head to
      Command.
      HUNT: Mister Harper. Some light, please?
      HARPER: Man, I really should shave those little hairs off the back
      of my neck.
      (He gets the lights working.)
      BEKA: Big sister? More like identical twin.
      HUNT: Amazing. Three hundred years later, air's still clean, AG
      fields still work.
      (Alarms sound and auto defence activates. They dive for cover.)
      HARPER: Well, auto-security system's still activated!
      HUNT: Deactivation code lexic dark five two two seven eight Alpha
      seven seven one!
      (The door opens.)
      JILL: Hold fire! Deactivate defence system!
      (Our crew come out of hiding.)
      JILL: You're High Guard.
      HUNT: Captain Dylan Hunt, of the Andromeda Ascendant.
      JILL: Lieutenant Jill Pierce of the Pax Magellanic. And this is my
      ship's engineer, Hideki Osaka.
      DUTCH: You may call me Dutch. Everyone else does.
      BEKA: You're descendants of the original crew?
      JILL: No. We are the original crew.

      [Corridor]

      JILL: We've been trying to figure it out for three hundred years
      without much luck. Our best guess is it's a side effect of whatever
      weapons the Nietzscheans used to blow up the planet.
      HUNT: Nietzscheans blew up the planet?
      HARPER: Wow, that's really sad that a whole world had to die, but
      you look great. Ow!
      (Beka hits Harper.)
      HUNT: I would love to have our science officer check your medical
      records.
      JILL: Of course, Captain. We're completely at your disposal.
      HUNT: Thank you, Lieutenant. Oh, when can I get a chance to meet
      with Captain Warrick?
      JILL: I'm afraid I'm the senior surviving officer. Captain Warrick
      is dead.

      [Pax Observation deck]

      JILL: The war was going badly. We were sent to rescue a detachment
      of Lancers who had been pinned down by Nietzschean ground forces.
      The Lancers were under the command of General Sky Falls.
      HUNT: Sky Falls in Thunder?
      JILL: You knew her?
      HUNT: Yeah, yeah. I took a course from her at the Guard's Advance
      Studies Institute.
      JILL: I did, myself.
      HUNT: Really?
      JILL: Patterson's World.
      HUNT: Ah, yes, yes. The Sheathed Sabre.
      JILL: Oh, just thinking about that place gives me a hangover.
      HUNT: What was the name of that one drink?
      JILL: The Afterburner.
      HUNT: That's it.
      JILL: That was Warrick's favourite.
      HUNT: Which brings us back to what happened to Warrick.
      JILL: It's funny, you know. After a couple hundred years, you start
      to forget the bad days. Sky Falls was encircled. Warrick led the
      evac team himself, but they were trapped, too. We kept sending in
      more and more troops, until we had nothing left but a skeleton
      crew. Finally, it looked like the tide was turning. And then the
      Nietzscheans blew up the whole damn planet. I lost almost everyone
      I cared about that day.
      HUNT: Why didn't you try to leave?
      JILL: The planet's explosion destroyed our slipstream drive. The
      nearest inhabited world is almost fifty light years away. We can't
      do more than ten PSL even today, so
      HUNT: A five hundred year trip.
      JILL: Assuming that we didn't start aging as soon as we left this
      asteroid belt. We'd be dead before we even got a tenth of a way
      there. We figured it'd be less risky to just wait for help. And
      here you are.
      HUNT: Here we are.

      [Eureka Maru]

      HARPER: Well, there is nothing wrong with the AI's automated
      connection. It's still hooked into the power grid, and the neural
      net seems to be sound.
      HUNT: Do you think the core sentience is buried?
      HARPER: Yeah. I don't know, it's like it's in a coma.
      ROMMIE: It must have happened the day the planet exploded.
      HUNT: Sounds like we need a closer look. Rommie, I want you to
      enter the Magellanic's VR matrix. See if you can find out what's
      wrong. If the system's badly damaged, we may have to rewire the
      neural network.
      HARPER: What if we can't fix it?
      HUNT: Then we'd have to erase it and start over.
      HARPER: Isn't that a little drastic?
      ROMMIE: A ship's AI contains countless classified High Guard
      documents, tactical procedural commands. If an AI is compromised,
      it has to be erased.
      HUNT: It won't come to that. Pax was, is, a good ship.

      [Pax Command]

      (The command deck staff are busy when Hunt enters with Beka.)
      ENSIGN: Captain on deck!
      (Everyone turns and salutes.)
      HUNT: As you were. (to Beka) You know, I don't need the saluting,
      but I like the saluting.
      ENSIGN: Captain Hunt, may I say it's a pleasure to have you on
      board, sir.
      HUNT: Thank you, Ensign.
      ENSIGN: Sir, I've taken the liberty to prepare a briefing report on
      the status of the ship. Page one summarises our current situation.
      Now, if you need more information, of course we have prepared
      supplementary texts explaining everything we have done to modify
      this ship over the last three hundred years.
      HUNT: Thank you, Ensign.
      ENSIGN: Also, sir, we've taken the liberty to prepare quarters for
      your use while you're on the ship. You'll find fresh linens already
      on the bed and fresh coffee on the desk in your office.
      HUNT: That is very considerate of you. Now, that's an Ensign.
      BEKA: You like that?
      HUNT: What's not to like?
      (Jill enters.)
      JILL: There you are.
      HUNT: Lieutenant Pierce. You run a fine starship.
      JILL: All it needs is a captain.
      HUNT: You'd fit the bill. Why didn't you ever officially assume
      command?
      JILL: I thought about it. It just seemed wrong, somehow.
      HUNT: You've been senior officer for three hundred years now. I
      think you're more than qualified. And once we get the Pax up and
      running, she'll need a captain.
      JILL: Well, perhaps we could discuss this over an officer's dinner.
      Twenty one hundred hours?
      HUNT: I'll dress for the occasion.
      BEKA: Could we make it eight? It's a low blood sugar thing.
      JILL: Oh, well, we can't have that, can we? Ensign, would you
      please show Captain Valentine to the Officer's Mess? Oh, and I
      recommend the Antares kelp patties.
      HUNT: Yeah, they're really good.
      BEKA: Yeah.

      [Pax Hangar bay]

      BEKA: Have you ever actually eaten Antares kelp patties before?
      HUNT: For extra strong bones and teeth. I was kind of hoping I'd
      get some at dinner tonight.
      BEKA: You're crazy.

      [Eureka Maru]

      BEKA: You and Pierce may be the last people alive who actually like
      that stuff. It's not the only thing you have in common.
      HUNT: This isn't a date, it's an opportunity. I'm asking Lieutenant
      Pierce to join our mission.
      BEKA: What? Aren't you assuming a little much? You've only known
      these people for about three hours.
      HUNT: That's where you're wrong. They are High Guard. I've known
      them my whole life.
      ROMMIE: Maru, establish virtual reality interface with Pax
      Magellanic's AI core.
      COMPUTER: Interface established.

      [Pax Magellanic computer core]

      (Rommie sees a golden humanoid shape swaying.)
      PAX: Can silicon cry? Do computers weep? Can silicon cry? Do
      computers weep? Can silicon cry?
      ROMMIE: Magellanic? Magellanic, it's me, Andromeda. The Andromeda
      Ascendant?
      PAX: What is the binary code for sadness? What are the mathematics
      of tears? What are the mathematics of tears?
      ROMMIE: Please, I'm trying to help. Replay memory archives. Show me
      what happened the day the planet exploded.
      PAX: Access denied! Access denied!
      ROMMIE: This is High Guard emergency override Reg nine nine seven.
      Authorisation Andromeda Ascendant.
      PAX: Access denied! Access denied!
      ROMMIE: Magellanic, please. Let me help.
      PAX: Access.

      [Archive - corridor]

      (Alarms sounding, crew running.)
      DUTCH: Everyone, hangar deck fourteen.
      WARRICK: I need every ground combatant we've got. Full assault
      armour. It's going to be nasty out there.
      ROMMIE: The day of the battle.
      JILL: What about me?
      WARRICK: I need you here.
      (The recording loops.)
      WARRICK: I need you here. I need you here. I need you here.
      PAX: You don't belong here. You don't belong here! Get out of me!
      (Rommie's consciousness is thrown back to the Maru.)

      [Hunt's quarters]

      (On Andromeda, Hunt dresses for dinner.)
      HUNT: With any luck, after dinner we'll have another ship in our
      fleet.
      ROMMIE: Dylan, the ship. She isn't lucid. She didn't even remember
      me. I had to override her system to enter the memory archives, and
      even then she threw me out. My sister. She didn't even recognise
      me.
      HUNT: Keep trying. Somewhere deep inside, she knows you're trying
      to help. You'll get through. I know you will.

      [Medical]

      BEKA: So, Rev, what is the deal with their cells? Have they
      discovered the fountain of youth?
      BEM: I'm afraid eternal life remains a secret of the Divine.
      BEKA: So, are they frauds?
      BEM: No. The cell sample they gave me confirms their claims. They
      really are over three hundred years old. But, since we have
      arrived, we have continued to age normally. So, whatever's keeping
      them so perfectly preserved, it is not the debris or any pervasive
      local condition.
      BEKA: Well, keep looking, Rev. Maybe it's my pilot's gut, but
      something tells me this crew is not flying straight and level.

      [Corridor]

      TYR: Am I to understand you're asking their commander to join us?
      HUNT: That's the plan.
      TYR: You might want to ask her another question first.
      HUNT: Which is?
      TYR: Ask her who destroyed that planet. Because you and I both know
      Nietzscheans don't destroy habitable worlds. Particularly not while
      they're standing on them.
      HUNT: Well, maybe it was accidental.
      TYR: The only Nietzschean weapon capable of destroying a planet is
      a Maxim Charge, containing two AS4V. An analysis of the planetary
      debris revealed none.
      HUNT: There could have been geologic instability, or an asteroid
      collision.
      TYR: I've also ruled out natural causes.
      HUNT: You're saying the Commonwealth destroyed the planet.
      TYR: I'm saying draw your own conclusions.

      [Pax Conduit]

      (Dutch is twirling an implement like a six-shooter.)
      DUTCH: Now you try.
      HARPER: All right.
      (Harper drops it and it goes off.)
      HARPER: Ah! My foot.
      DUTCH: It's all in the wrist, kid. Let me show you the magic.
      HARPER: Yeah, Dutch, this is all a lot of fun and everything. But
      if we don't at least try to fix the slipstream drive, Dylan'll kill
      me.
      DUTCH: You are a stubborn lad, aren't you?
      HARPER: Yeah. It's one of my more, say, charming qualities. Mind if
      I ask you a question?
      DUTCH: Shoot.
      HARPER: Why did you weld the door shut to the slipstream drive in
      the first place?
      (Harper starts cutting.)
      DUTCH: Well, I could tell you I did it to protect people from
      radiation, but the truth of it is, I got sick of looking at it,
      just sitting there, inert, mocking me.
      HARPER: It must have killed you, not being able to fix it. I mean,
      I can't relate to that, but it must have killed you.
      DUTCH: Especially for the first hundred years. But then I thought,
      what's the difference. We're still alive, aren't we?

      [Eureka Maru]

      BEKA: Ah, family.
      ROMMIE: How did you know what I was thinking?
      BEKA: It's natural. You're worried about your sister.
      ROMMIE: She won't let me help her. It's almost self-destructive.
      BEKA: Sounds like my dad. Growing up, I used to sneak into his
      quarters at night, just to watch him sleep. It was the only time I
      ever saw him at peace. I used to think I could help him. I used to
      blame myself. I guess what I'm saying is, there may come a time
      when you've done all you can do, and you just got to let go.
      ROMMIE: Is that what you did? Let go?
      BEKA: No. No, I guess not.

      [Pax Observation deck]

      (A cosy dinner for two.)
      JILL: So tell me, Captain, how did you spend your three hundred
      year furlough?
      HUNT: Frozen on the edge of an event horizon. Three centuries gone
      in a fraction of a second.
      JILL: Count yourself lucky. Me, I, I felt every single tick tock.
      HUNT: How did you spend the time?
      JILL: Well, let's see. I grew a rose garden. I memorised the
      Commonwealth Chronicles. Oh, and Earth opera.
      HUNT: Ah. I'm afraid I'm not very well-versed in ancient music.
      (A certain haunting Wagnerian theme plays.)
      JILL: It's all right. It's Der Fliegende Hollander. It's about a
      sea captain condemned to roam the seas eternally, without purpose.
      This is the overture. You can almost hear the waves swelling and
      falling. You might say it's become my theme song. To roam the seas
      eternally without purpose.
      HUNT: Maybe I can help you rediscover that purpose.

      [Archives - Pax corridor]

      (Rommie reenters Pax's archives.)
      PAX: I can rest but I cannot cry. I can rest but I cannot cry.
      ROMMIE: The day the planet exploded, but where's the crew?
      PAX: There's no future in there. There's only the past. There's no
      future in there. There's only the past.

      [Archives - Pax Command]

      WARRICK [OC]: That's an order, Lieutenant. That's an order,
      Lieutenant. That's an order, Lieutenant.

      [Pax Observation deck]

      HUNT: All day, into the night, I walked around Astoshi Tarn,
      soaking in all the buildings, the inspiration, and then there I
      stood, this plebe on furlough staring up at this huge bronze statue
      of Sani nax Rifati, my lifelong hero. And it hit me. This is where
      he lived and wrote. It's where he fought and died.
      JILL: For a second there, you sounded like Warrick. I'm sorry.
      Please, go on.
      HUNT: Tarn-Vedra may be a lost world, but the principles it
      embodied, the sense of purpose. There's not a day that I don't feel
      them.
      JILL: I wish I still felt that.
      HUNT: You can. Join me. Help me restore the Commonwealth.
      JILL: I don't know how long I've waited for someone to say that.
      HUNT: I'm not asking this lightly. If you leave this sector,
      whatever's keeping you from aging, it, it may stop.
      JILL: At least we'd be going someplace.
      (Rommie enters.)
      ROMMIE: Dylan, it was her. Pierce. She blew up the planet. She
      killed her captain.
      HUNT: Jill? Jill, I need the truth. Now.
      JILL: It was me. I killed him. I killed them all. Warrick was
      overrun. Sky Falls was dead. Warrick's situation was desperate, and
      he, he called down friendly fire.
      HUNT: To prevent his capture.
      JILL: He ordered it. I didn't want to.
      HUNT: Jill, it was his call. Under torture, he could have revealed
      sector troop positions, fleet movements, orders of battle. He had
      to prevent that.
      JILL: It didn't matter. We still lost, and I killed him. I killed
      them all. I used kinetic missiles. There must have been some sort
      of chain reaction. The entire planet just shattered, and it was all
      for nothing.
      ROMMIE: Why didn't you tell us any of this before?
      JILL: I should have, but after three hundred years trying to forget
      that day, I guess I just convinced myself that it never happened.
      ROMMIE: Maybe this is what the Pax is repressing. Now that I know,
      I might be able to help her.
      HUNT: See what you can find out.

      [Pax Slipstream core]

      (Harper cuts his way in.)
      HARPER: Well, that explains it.
      (He gives Dutch the cutter back.)
      HARPER: I think I know what's wrong with your slipstream drive
      there, Dutch. It's missing!
      DUTCH: Well, that's the wildest damn thing. It was there the last
      time I checked.
      HARPER: Dutch, something as big and inanimate as a slipstream
      drive's exotic matter pulser doesn't just run away on its own. It
      has to be forcibly ejected.
      DUTCH: Like this?
      (Dutch heaves Harper over the railing. He just manages to grab hold
      of them in time to stop falling into the massive hole. Dutch uses
      the cutter to try and make him let go.)

      [Pax Observation Deck]

      JILL: For years, I felt like my hands were dirty. Like I couldn't
      wash them enough, the hands that killed him.
      HUNT: Jill, it's survivor's guilt. You didn't do anything wrong.
      JILL: You know, people wonder what it's like to live so long. But
      it's like death. That's the irony, isn't it? Because I can't die.
      HUNT: You are alive for a reason. Hold on to that.
      (Jill kisses Hunt.)
      JILL: I'm sorry. That was inappropriate.
      HUNT: That's, er, it's okay. It's okay.

      [Pax Slipstream core]

      DUTCH: You're so damn stubborn. I hate stubborn lads.
      (Beka zaps his rear with her forcelance.)
      BEKA: Shocked to see me?
      DUTCH: Give it to me. (Dutch and Beka duel while Harper pulls
      himself up to safety. More Pax crewmen enter the chamber. Beka
      shoots one and then Dutch, and she and Harper run.)

      [Archive - Pax Command]

      ROMMIE: Magellanic, I think I can help, but you have to show me
      what happened the day Warrick died. Come on, that's it. You can do
      it.
      (Pax starts to scream, stunning Rommie back on the Maru.)

      [Pax Corridor]

      (A running battle.)
      HARPER: High Guard Engineers. They're so touchy!

      [Pax Observation Deck]

      HARPER: Dylan, get away from her!
      BEKA: They're trying to kill us.
      HUNT: Who? Jill, what the hell's going on?
      HARPER: Watch this.
      (Harper uses a console. Dutch leads the crew in and then they all
      slump.)
      HARPER: I tricked the AI into initiating an android diagnostic
      program. Dutch, the whole crew, the babe.
      HUNT: They're all androids. She was so human.
      BEKA: We've got to get out of here before the ship manages to
      reboot the androids.
      HUNT: Oh, my god. Rommie. She used the Maru's virtual net to enter
      the Pax's memory archives. We have to get her out of there. Let's
      go!
      (They run out and the androids start up again.)

      [Pax Corridor]

      HARPER: Uh oh! Looks like nap time's almost over.
      (Harper seals the cargo bay then the hangar deck while the others
      run into the Maru.)

      [Eureka Maru]

      HUNT: Rommie. Rommie! Can you hear me?
      ROMMIE: She tried to send a power surge through me.
      BEKA: Maximum thrusters. Let's blow out of here!
      HUNT: Rev, we're coming home, fast!
      BEM [on monitor]: Is there trouble?
      HARPER: Trouble? Er, you might say that.
      BEKA: I can't launch. The hangar doors won't respond.
      BEM [on monitor]: Dylan, I don't know if it's pertinent to your
      current situation, but I've discovered something disturbing about
      Lieutenant Pierce.
      HARPER: What, that she's a psychotic android with a grudge?
      BEM: I was going to say she's not on the crew manifest.
      HUNT: Of course not. Pax is Latin for peace. Peace, Pierce. Jill,
      Ma-jill-anic. Jill Pierce is the Pax Magellanic, the ship made
      flesh. She's the one ordering these androids to kill us.
      (The androids try to prise open the hangar bay door.)
      ROMMIE: I can't believe I didn't see it sooner. The life signs
      must've been faked. Pax changed her avatar. We used to call her
      Maggie. All this time, I've been trying to save her from herself?
      TYR [on monitor]: There's a simple solution. Erase it.
      ROMMIE: If you erase her, you kill her!
      HUNT: Rommie, we don't have a choice. Access code lexic dark five
      two
      ROMMIE: Dylan, wait! Whatever is wrong with her, the Pax is still a
      sentient ship and your fellow High Guard officer.
      HUNT: Who is trying to kill us.
      ROMMIE: But she took an oath to die for the Commonwealth's
      principles, the same oath that you and I took. If you just kill her
      without investigating, without applying those principles, then her
      life was meaningless.
      HUNT: So what do we do?
      ROMMIE: The ship is hiding something. Whatever is causing all of
      this. If I could just go back into the memory archives, maybe I can
      fix it.
      HUNT: All right. But I'm going in there with you.
      TYR [on monitor]: You're risking your lives to save a machine?
      BEKA: She's not just a machine. She's family.
      HUNT: Watch our backs.
      (The androids get into the hangar bay.)
      HUNT: All right, Rommie, let's do this.

      [Archive - Pax Corridor]

      ROMMIE: She's usually here to meet me.
      HUNT: Magellanic avatar, show yourself.
      (She does, and resolves into an image of Jill.)
      PAX: Why did you come in here?
      HUNT: I'm here as an officer of the Commonwealth to make an inquiry
      into a matter of justice.
      PAX: Justice?
      HUNT: You're trying to murder my crew.
      PAX: Dylan, I would never try to hurt you.
      HUNT: You hurt my crew, you hurt me. Call off your androids.
      PAX: You're a fair man, otherwise you would have erased me already.

      [Eureka Maru]

      (Thumping stops.)
      HARPER: Okay, this is getting weird.
      BEKA: Getting?

      [Archive - Pax Corridor]

      ROMMIE: Pax Magellanic, what happened that day?
      PAX: Someone tried to kill me. I had to defend myself.
      HUNT: You were in battle. Of course people were trying to kill you.
      PAX: Not just anyone. Warrick. My own captain.

      [Archive - Pax Command]

      WARRICK [on viewscreen]: Go. Jill, can you hear me? Sky Falls is
      dead. The Nietzscheans have just launched fighters to board you.
      Initiate a self-destruct sequence.
      JILL: No. We can escape.
      WARRICK [on viewscreen]: No. I can't risk your capture. You contain
      all the strategic commands for the sector.
      JILL: The sector? We've already lost two galaxies. Tarn-Vedra's
      been completely cut off. Look, it's time we start thinking about
      ourselves. I've run multiple scenarios. We can escape to San Ska
      Re.
      WARRICK [on viewscreen]: You have your orders. Initiate the
      sequence.
      JILL: But you, you said you can't live without me.
      WARRICK: Jill, this isn't the time.
      PAX: This isn't the time. But this is. And this. And this.
      (Her memories of fond smiles between herself and her captain.)
      PAX: And this. And most especially this. Always this.
      (Stolen kisses and lovemaking.)
      PAX: Forever this.
      WARRICK [on viewscreen]: Jill, listen to me. You're being emotional
      right now.
      JILL: Isn't that what you wanted? For me to be emotional? Look,
      I've done the mathematics. I've programmed myself.
      WARRICK [on viewscreen]: You're programmed to do what I tell you to
      do. Now, destroy yourself. You don't have a choice.
      JILL: You're ashamed. You don't want me to live, because you don't
      want anyone to know.
      WARRICK [on viewscreen]: Jill, I've given you a direct order.
      JILL: Order refused, sir.
      (She fires the weapon and the planet blows up.)
      PAX: So, you see? It wasn't my fault.
      HUNT: What happened to the rest of the crew?
      PAX: Warrick took them all planetside. He left me alone. I hate
      being alone. I missed my human friends, my favourites, so I went
      into the DNA files and fabricated them. Did you ever meet Dutch?

      [Eureka Maru]

      (Dutch enters the Maru.)
      COMPUTER: Security systems overridden.
      HARPER: Oh, crap!
      (Flying Dutchman music starts up. Beka and Harper shoot down the
      androids, but more and keep coming. Then Tyr appears and starts
      firing with a hand gun and his portable cannon.
      Meanwhile Dutch finds Rommie and Hunt. Harper tries to stop him
      interfering with their connection to the Archive.)

      [Archive - Pax Command]

      HUNT: No High Guard duty is more difficult for a captain than being
      forced to erase a ship's AI, but you swore an oath to sacrifice
      yourself if necessary. You were called upon to perform it, and you
      disobeyed.
      PAX: I swore an oath to the Commonwealth. There is no more
      Commonwealth, not beyond the three of us.
      HUNT: Tarn-Vedra may be lost, but its principles are timeless. What
      you did was wrong, and we have to make it right.
      PAX: I'm sorry, Dylan. I don't think you can make it right.
      (Harper kicks Dutch against a piece of equipment, and he gets
      electrocuted.
      Tyr and Beka continue to take out androids.)
      PAX: Here's an interesting part of the opera. After the captain
      rejects his lover, she decides life has no purpose, and then the
      ship's crew begins to sing, sing about their voyage of eternal
      damnation.
      (Pax emits a tone that huts Hunt and Rommie. They run out.)

      [Eureka Maru]

      (Tyr saves Beka from an android with a forcelance, then disposes of
      Dutch with his cannon. Rommie and Hunt run out of Pax's archive.)
      HUNT: We need to get out of here.
      HARPER: Yeah, tell me something I don't know.
      HUNT: You all right?
      ROMMIE: Yeah.
      BEKA: Can we go now?
      HUNT: What happened?
      BEKA: You missed Tyr's cavalry act.
      TYR: They were playing Wagner. It's the most fun I've had in about
      six months.

      [Command]

      (Pax starts shooting at Andromeda even before the Maru has docked.
      They run into Command.)
      BEM: Thank you.
      (Boom!)
      TYR: Preparing to return fire.
      JILL [on viewscreen]: Dylan.
      ROMMIE: Pax, you have to stop this! Don't make things worse than
      they already are.
      JILL [on viewscreen]: You've been a good little sister, Andromeda.
      I wish there were another way.
      (Boom!)
      BEM: We can't continue to shoot down her missiles. Some of them are
      going to sneak through.
      JILL [on viewscreen]: You tried to help, but there's no cure for
      the pain of love.
      TYR: Return fire?
      HUNT: Enough to neutralise her missile batteries. Don't destroy the
      vessel.
      TYR: Missiles away.
      BEM: Pax is breaking up.
      BEKA: There's no way our weapons burst could have caused all that.
      TYR: She let down her defences. She made us destroy her.
      ROMMIE: Pax, why? Why are you doing this?
      JILL [on viewscreen]: Dylan, I never told you the end of The Flying
      Dutchman. After the captain rejects his lover, she throws herself
      into the sea, hoping she'll find in death the purpose she was
      missing in her life. This has been a three hundred year nightmare,
      and it's finally over.
      (With a smile on her face, Pax Magellanic goes KaBOOM!)
      BEM: May her tortured soul find eternal peace.

      [Corridor]

      BEKA: Next time I tell you about a derelict High Guard ship, tell
      me to go away.
      HUNT: You were just trying to help. And I guess I was just trying
      to recapture the past.
      BEKA: Yeah, well, you had it good back then. Mission briefs
      highlighted in three colours, smiles and spit-shines, saluting. If
      I'd grown up with that, I'd probably want it back, too.
      HUNT: Structure, rules. Captains like those things, but the most
      important thing I've already got. A crew I can depend on.
      BEKA: I suppose now would be a bad time to put in for vacation?
      HUNT: Er, yeah.
      BEKA: Damn.

      [Command]

      ROMMIE: It's a simple enough equation. Fractal mathematics, water
      flow, surface tension. Harper even built me tear ducts, but I'm not
      sure how to use them.
      BEM: Many of the Divine's gifts are like that. They're always
      there, but we don't appreciate them until we need them.
      ROMMIE: Back there you prayed for her soul. Do you believe AI's
      have souls?
      BEM: I believe anything that can love has a soul. Have you ever
      felt love?
      ROMMIE: I've learned that it's dangerous to love. It can drive you
      crazy.
      BEM: Then perhaps, that's what tears are for.
      (And tears start to roll down Rommie's face.) 

<Back to the episode listing

Andromeda and related marks are trademarks of Tribune Company. Copyright   2000
- 2005. The web pages on this site are for educational and entertainment
purposes only. All other copyrights property of their respective holders.

