 

Music of a Distant Drum

Original Airdate: 5 Feb 5, 2001

                        KLUDGE (klooj)   n. Disparaging
                        term for genetically unmodified
                         human being. See also ' ber'

                         A Concise Dictionary of Slang
                                 and Euphemism
                                   C.Y. 9021

      [Shoreline]

      (A young man and a woman are pulling in nets with floats on.)
      BREYON: I was talking to Oren the other day.
      YVAINE: Back from the city so soon?
      BREYON: Just to visit. But you should've seen him. He had all new
      clothes on and his own strider.
      YVAINE: Good for Oren.
      BREYON: Yeah, he says they need weavers in Hegel's Port. You could
      make good money.
      YVAINE: What about you?
      BREYON: I can work as a loader, or go on one of the big boats, like
      Oren.
      YVAINE: You're too young. Besides, I promised your father I'd stay
      here and look out for you.
      BREYON: I'm almost sixteen. I don't need looking out for.

      [Cottage]

      (They take their catch of fish back to their home.)
      BREYON: And I'm not going to stay around here for the rest of my
      life, in the middle of nowhere, fishing, and giving half the
      harvest to the Dragans, anyway.
      YVAINE: It's not so bad.
      BREYON: Compared to what?
      YVAINE: The universe can be a dangerous place, Breyon. There are a
      lot worse places than this. Believe me.
      BREYON: I don't get you. You weren't born here. You're not even my
      real mother, so why do you bother?
      YVAINE: Your father was a good man. I loved him. And I made him a
      promise.
      (They put the fish in a high-tech refrigerator, out of keeping with
      the simple wooden home and furniture, and homemade clothes.)
      BREYON: Well, if you loved him so much, why don't you help fight
      the Dragans, huh?
      YVAINE: I'm going to forget you said that.
      BREYON: You going to forget what they did to him, too? How they
      didn't just kill him? How they cut him up and fed him to the fish?
      I'm going to pay 'them back, you'll see.

      [Outside the cottage]

      (Yvaine is putting the fillets on racks to smoke and dry when
      something burns across the sky.)
      BREYON: What was that?
      YVAINE: A ship.
      BREYON: Dragans.
      YVAINE: It's not on their normal landing approach.
      BREYON: Well, it has to be them. Nobody else ever comes around
      here. Do you think somebody shot him down? Where are you going?!
      YVAINE: They're crashing. Someone might be hurt.
      BREYON: If they're Dragans, they got whatever they deserve.
      YVAINE: And if they're not? Stay here.
      (The ship lands by the shoreline through the trees.)

      [Eureka Maru]

      (The inside is a mess. Yvaine hears a groan and runs to the pilot's
      chair. When she sees the occupant, she kneels.)
      YVAINE: My lord. I didn't realise. I came to see if you needed
      help.
      TYR: My lord? Where am I?
      YVAINE: You're on Midden, my lord. Melanzey Inlet. I'm Yvaine
      Gwennens-daughter.
      TYR: All right. One more question. Who am I?

      [Cottage]

      YVAINE: There's plenty to eat, as long as you like fish. We grow a
      few vegetables up on the hillside. Do Nietzscheans eat vegetables?
      TYR: We can eat virtually anything, so long as it's organic.
      YVAINE: Well, we've got plenty of driftwood. I'm sorry, I meant no
      disrespect.
      TYR: You've been very hospitable.
      (Tyr has flashes of himself walking onto Andromeda, standing in the
      Maru, arriving on Guderian's holdfast. He sags.)
      YVAINE: Are you all right? You still can't remember anything?
      TYR: I know I am a Nietzschean. I can remember general facts and
      information, but my personal memories. I only have glimpses,
      images.
      YVAINE: I'm sure once I contact the Dragans, they'll
      TYR: Dragans?
      YVAINE: It's a nickname we have for your family, the Drago Kazov
      Pride. Midden is one of their, your, tributary worlds, my lord.
      TYR: Drago-Kazov. You will tell them nothing.
      YVAINE: But my lord
      TYR: Do what I say! Nietzschean family relations are complicated.
      Until I have my proper wits about me, I prefer to remain anonymous.
      YVAINE: Of course. Please, make yourself comfortable. I have to
      tend to my nets.

      [Shoreline]

      BREYON: Are you insane? Bringing that Dragan into our house?
      YVAINE: I don't think he's a Dragan. The way he said Kazov, like it
      was an insult.
      BREYON: He's still a Nietzschean.
      YVAINE: Well, what was I supposed to do, leave him to die?
      BREYON: Why not? It's what he would've done if we were dying. You
      think he'd lift a finger to help us?
      YVAINE: I can't live my life like a Nietzschean. Besides, think,
      Breyon. What if he is one of them? If I left him there and he died,
      then what would have happened? The Dragans would have killed you,
      me, and half the people on this inlet.
      BREYON: I'm so sick of this. I'm sick of feeding them, I'm sick of
      kissing their feet. I wish they'd all just disappear.
      YVAINE: The rocks might as well try to wish away the ocean.
      (Tyr hears all this from the outside the cottage.)
      BREYON: Well, I'm not a rock. I'm a human being.
      YVAINE: That's the problem. We're only humans.

      [Command]

      HUNT: I thought you went to bed.
      BEKA: Yeah, I didn't sleep very well.
      HUNT: Is anything wrong?
      BEKA: Yeah, actually, er, I kept dreaming about you. It was very,
      er, what's the opposite of sleep-inducing?
      HUNT: Arousing.
      BEKA: Yeah, it wasn't that kind of dream. It was very disturbing.
      Yeah, that's the word I was looking for. It was disturbing. You
      know, you were, er, King Arthur, and I was Guinevere.
      HUNT: I thought it wasn't that kind of dream
      BEKA: And we were discussing our taxes. I wanted you to demand a
      tribute from the Saxons, and you, of course, wanted to give back
      all the money that we'd gotten from them so far. And then, in
      walked Merlin, only he looked exactly like Andromeda.
      HUNT: Oh, lucky him.
      BEKA: Andromeda the ship, not the persona, but wearing a big,
      pointy hat.
      HUNT: So, this is the disturbing part.
      BEKA: No, that's still coming. Anyway, er, he said, she said, that
      the kingdom was in trouble, and if we didn't start doing something
      about it, we would have to sell the Round Table.
      HUNT: We are not using the Andromeda to carry cargo.
      BEKA: You're jumping ahead a little.
      HUNT: That's where you were going.
      BEKA: Uh, no, actually, I had in mind a mining operation. Want to
      see? C'mon. C'mon.
      (She pulls up an image of Andromeda's empty cargo bay.)
      BEKA: Look. Andromeda has a cargo capacity of ten million cubic
      metres. Now, I've heard that there are asteroids in the Katana
      System that are made of pure platinum. I say we take the point
      defense lasers and carve out just a
      HUNT: No.
      BEKA: Exactly what you said in my dream.
      HUNT: Oh, and I meant it. As soon as we find Tyr, we're heading
      straight for Asampa to meet with the local Than.
      BEKA: Fine. You'd rather chat with the local bugs than make a small
      fortune, who am I to argue?
      HUNT: Oh, wait. You still haven't told me the disturbing part.
      BEKA: Oh, yeah. There was this whole Lancelot thing. I really don't
      want to get into it.

      [Cottage]

      (Tyr is sleeping on a cot when Breyon points a gun at his head. Tyr
      grabs his arm, pulls him down and points it at Breyon's head
      instead.)
      TYR: I'll teach you rule number one. You never aim a gun at someone
      unless you intend to use it.
      BREYON: Go ahead. Shoot me. Sooner or later, Midden will be free of
      you Dragan bastards.
      TYR [memories]: My blood! Drago Kazov. Drago Kazov.
      (He takes the gun and pushes Breyon away.)
      TYR: You keep talking as if I am a member of the Drago Kazov Pride.
      But I think I hate them even more than you do. Here.
      (He gives Breyon the gun and lies down again.)
      BREYON: You're wrong about hating them more than we do. The Dragans
      have occupied this planet for centuries, killed millions of people.
      And every time we try and get rid of them
      TYR: It just makes things worse.
      BREYON: They killed him. They killed my father.
      (Breyon leaves. Tyr has painful memories of explosions.)
      YVAINE: Please, my lord, he didn't mean any harm. He's just a boy.
      TYR: I won't hurt him.
      YVAINE: You mean that?
      TYR: Look at me, woman. I don't know who I am. I don't know where I
      am. My ship is wrecked, I have no resources. My survival, it seems,
      would depend on establishing a relationship with the native
      inhabitants of this planet, beginning with you.
      YVAINE: You really don't remember anything? Not even your name?
      TYR: Nothing.
      YVAINE: So what are we going to call you?
      TYR: Anything you like.
      YVAINE: Do you know 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea? An ancient Earth
      novel about a mysterious ship's captain seeking vengeance against
      his enemies.
      TYR: And what did they call him?
      YVAINE: The Latin word for no one. Nemo.

      [Eureka Maru]

      YVAINE: Still nothing?
      TYR: And the saddest part is, I could probably fly this wreck, if I
      had to. But I'll be damned if I know what it's called, or where I'd
      go.
      (He pushes open a door to reveal an upright coffin-sized
      container.)
      TYR: This is important. I'm certain of it. I
      YVAINE: Maybe if you opened it?
      TYR: A three-stage lock. Keyhole, genetic scanner, voice code
      recognition system. Keyhole, and I have a key.
      (Tyr puts a card into the slot.)
      CRATE: Provide scan.
      (Tyr touches a button.)
      CRATE: Authorised. Provide voice code. Incorrect code will trigger
      self-destruct.
      (Tyr puts his hand over Yvaine's mouth to stop her speaking.)
      CRATE: Do you wish to continue the unlock sequence? If yes, provide
      the voice code. If no, remove the physical key. {Tyr removes the
      key} Unlock sequence aborted.

      [Woods]

      (Yvaine and Tyr make their way back to the cottage.)
      HANNO [OC]: Open it now!
      BREYON [OC]: Let go of me!
      YVAINE: Wait here.
      TYR: No. I can help.
      YVAINE: Nietzscheans aren't very popular around here.
      BREYON [OC]: Get off of me! That's all there is!

      [Cottage]

      (Breyon is being pushed around by three men.)
      HANNO: What do you mean that's all there is?
      BREYON: I told you, that's all we can spare.
      HANNO: You're holding out on me.
      (Yvaine enters.)
      YVAINE: Let him go, Hanno.
      HANNO: Yvaine. Lovely, as always.
      YVAINE: Save it. Just get out!
      HANNO: Oh, such a cold welcome, and after all we do for you. I
      think you'd be more grateful.
      YVAINE: Grateful? For what? For blockading the roads? Stealing our
      harvests? Ambushing our convoys on the way to market?
      HANNO: We are fighting to free Midden from the Dragans.
      YVAINE: My husband was a patriot. You're nothing but a thief.
      HANNO: A thief is someone who takes what they want. Is that what I
      am?
      (Hanno pushes Yvaine down onto the table and puts a knife to her
      throat.)
      HANNO: Be careful. I might live up to your expectations.
      TYR: Or, you might not live at all.
      (Tyr's fingers are by his gun. Hanno pulls Yvaine up to use as a
      shield. The other two hold Breyon.)
      HANNO: Ah! I wouldn't.
      HANNO: Drop your weapons and get face down on the floor, or she
      dies.
      (Tyr remembers himself shooting a gun, and doing one arm pull-ups.)
      TYR: You're making a mistake.
      HANNO: I don't make mistakes. Tie him up!
      (Tyr kneels.)
      YVAINE: Hanno, don't.
      HANNO: Why are you protecting this  ber?
      TYR: She's not protecting me. She's protecting you.
      (Tyr throws the man who goes to tie him up across the room. Yvaine
      crunches her elbow into Hanno's face, then her knee goes somewhere
      else. Tyr disposes of number three then pushes Hanno across the
      table with the knife to his throat.)
      YVAINE: That's enough!
      TYR: It's enough when I say it is.
      YVAINE: You don't have to live here. I do. And if you kill him, I'm
      as good as dead.
      HANNO: Lady's got a point.
      (Tyr lets him up. The other two men are still writhing and
      groaning.)
      HANNO: Help me with them.
      TYR: Carry out your own trash.

      [Command]

      BEKA: Anything?
      HUNT: Not yet.
      BEKA: Damn that Nietzschean. He stole my ship.
      HUNT: I'm not worried about your ship. I'm worried about Tyr.
      BEKA: Okay. Okay, you know, before he left, I did warn him that the
      Maru had a bad plasma regulator. If he was planning on doing any
      tricky maneuvering, he would have had to fix it.
      HUNT: We should check all local drifts, see if he tried to get a
      replacement.
      BEKA: Yeah. It's a start, anyway.

      [Eureka Maru]

      (Tyr puts a disc onto a reader and slides it into a console.)
      YVAINE: Still no luck?
      TYR: Something scrambled the main database. Most of the records are
      badly garbled.
      (An ID screen comes up.)
      YVAINE: Well, at least you know your name. Barabas Jericho, Owner
      and operator of the Klondike Trail.
      TYR: Faked.
      YVAINE: You sure?
      TYR: I may not know my real name, but I know it's not Barabas.
      Pilot's licence, registry, course logs. All forgeries. On the
      bright side, I know what happened to my memory.
      YVAINE: Some kind of machine?
      (An image of a computer chip.)
      TYR: That is an attack nanobot, designed to scramble electrical
      systems, both mechanical and biological. The ship was infested with
      them, and so was I.
      YVAINE: They were in your blood? You're lucky they didn't kill you.
      TYR: I'm a Nietzschean. I have a bioengineered immune system,
      defensive nanobots of my own. They stopped the attack and should
      repair the damage. Eventually.
      YVAINE: And then what?
      TYR: And then I go back to my life, whatever that is.

      [Shoreline]

      TYR: How did you end up here, in a place like this? You certainly
      don't look like a fishmonger.
      YVAINE: It's honest work. A lot better than some of the other
      things I've had to do. The Dragans have ruled here for centuries.
      You know we can't beat them, but people get a little crazy
      sometimes. It happened in my home city, Nisalla, when I was ten. We
      tried to fight.
      TYR: Your people lost.
      YVAINE: Worse. We won. We wiped out the local garrison. The next
      day, the Dragans dropped an atomic warhead on the city. I was the
      only member of my family who made it out.
      TYR [memory - to Freya]: I saw my mother. She was slow.
      TYR: My parents. Something happened to them, something, something
      similar. And I think the Drago Kazov. I can't remember.
      YVAINE: I wish I could say that. The next few years were rough. I
      made it to Hegel's Port somehow, and then I met Larone, Breyon's
      father. He was kind, gentle, quiet but intense. He asked me to come
      back with him. And to me, this was paradise, living with Larone,
      helping him raise Breyon, until the madness came here too. The
      Dragans increased the tribute levels, so the local fishermen
      stopped paying in protest. The Dragans killed one tenth of the male
      population of the province, including Larone.
      (Tyr wipes away Yvaine's tears and is moving in for a kiss when
      there is a Whoosh Bang! and something streaks across the sky.)
      TYR: That's a ship.
      YVAINE: Headed for the landing field outside Hegel's Port, which
      means the Dragans are coming.

      [Cottage]

      (Tyr checks his weapons.)
      YVAINE: You don't have to go. We can hide you here.
      TYR: And if the Dragans come?
      YVAINE: They might not even be looking for you.
      TYR: They're my enemies. The more I think about it, the more
      certain I am of that.
      BREYON: We could fight. I could spread the word. We'd have a small
      army in a couple of hours. Dragans can't win forever, and maybe
      with your help.
      TYR: Even with my help, a great many of your people will die. Your
      mother's right, it's madness. I'll leave.
      YVAINE: There's another option. You could give them what they want.
      TYR: You think they're after that crate.
      YVAINE: You won't miss it. You don't even know what it is. And no
      one will have to die.
      TYR: I can't. That crate, it's mine. I can feel it. Live well.

      [Eureka Maru]

      (Tyr tries to attach an anti-grav unit onto the crate.)
      CRATE: Warning. AG field cannot be activated without proper
      security code. Warning. AG field cannot be activated without proper
      security
      TYR: Fine! I'll do it myself.
      (He tries to lift the crate.)
      ARJUN [OC]: Come on, quick. There may be trouble.
      TYR [memories]: Maintain focus. Unforgiving this universe has
      become. Pay attention.
      TYR: Pay attention. Pay attention.
      (He pulls the doors shut.
      A man opens the airlock, throws in a grenade then shuts them again.
      The grenade goes off, then the men enter and shoot at security
      monitors.)
      ARJUN: Clear.
      MAN: Clear. Anything on the sniffer?
      ARJUN: I'm picking up trace from the target. He was here. What
      about the package?
      MAN 2: I've got it!
      (Arjun joins him.)
      MAN 2: Man, this is going to get Ishtar's attention.
      ARJUN: Worry about fathering children later. Focus on the job. Get
      me an uplink to satellite. Give them a lock on our position.
      (Hiding below the floor level, Tyr pulls the feet out from under
      Arjun, then fights the man, throwing him down a level.)
      ARJUN: What are you waiting for? Shoot me.
      TYR: I don't waste resources.
      ARJUN: And I don't cooperate with the enemy of my Pride.
      TYR: Fine. (Tyr hits him.) I want a name.
      ARJUN: Arjun Lya, Drago Kazov Pride.
      TYR: Not your name. Mine.
      ARJUN: We don't know. Is that what you want to hear? Why don't you
      tell me? I'll make sure that they spell it right on your grave
      marker.
      (Tyr drags him over to the crate. It has shoulder straps fastened
      to it.)
      TYR: Lift it. Do what I say.
      (Arjun puts his arms through the straps and lifts the crate.)
      TYR: Good. Now walk.

      [Woods]

      (Arjun falls to his knees under the weight.)
      TYR: Keep moving.
      ARJUN: Why? As soon as we're done, you're just going to kill me.
      Might as well get it over with. I'm tired.
      TYR: You're a husband and father, and you owe it to your mate and
      your children to keep yourself alive for as long as possible, hmmm?
      Lift that crate.

      [Corridor]

      (Andromeda is at a Drift.)
      HUNT: He went to the Drago Kazov homeworld?
      BEKA: Hey, my exact reaction.
      HUNT: Why would Tyr walk into the stronghold of his mortal enemies?
      BEKA: I'll see your question and I'll raise you one. What did he do
      when he got there? Look at that. A couple of hours after he landed,
      the Drago's mobilised their entire fleet.
      HUNT: That's Tyr. He always loved to party.

      [Woods]

      (Arjun falls again.)
      ARJUN: Make it quick. I can't carry it any further.
      TYR: That's far enough.
      (Tyr takes the crate off Arjun and puts it on his own back.)
      TYR: I recommend that you don't move until nightfall. I may still
      be out there in the trees somewhere. And if I see you again, I'll
      kill you.
      ARJUN: You're keeping me alive?
      TYR: Apparently.
      ARJUN: You're Kodiak Pride, aren't you?
      TYR: What if I am?
      ARJUN: I was right about what I was carrying. It was an honour.

      [Cave]

      (Tyr puts down the crate.)
      TYR: Kodiak.
      BEM [memory]: Kodiak Pride.
      DIMITRI [memory]: Kodiak?
      FREYA [memory]: Kodiak?
      (Tyr unfastens the straps around the crate and holds the key.)
      TYR [memory]: My lineage was also proud. The Kodiak were entrusted
      with the remains of the original progenitor.
      FREYA [memory]: You've actually seen the body of Drago Museveni?
      TYR [memory]: As a child. The mummified remains were enshrined in
      our fasthold. From all over the known worlds would make pilgrimages
      to see it. We lived under a permanent truce, and our allies
      guaranteed our safety. Until the Drago Kazov pride claimed they
      were the Progenitor's rightful keepers. Our allies abandoned us.
      TYR: We fought so very fiercely.
      (Tyr inserts the key and touches the genetic scan button.)
      CRATE: Authorised. Provide voice code.
      TYR: Voice code, retribution.
      CRATE: Authorised. Locks disengaged.
      (Tyr lifts the lid and gazes on a mummy in dry ice.)
      TYR: Drago Museveni, I presume?

      [Woods]

      (Next morning.)
      ARJUN: Spread out and find the Kodiak. Remember, we need him alive,
      so no mistakes.
      (Tyr watches the hunting party from a tree. One man steps on a trip
      wire, then turns and just stands there while a tree trunk swings
      down to hit him. His comrades scatter and dive.)
      ARJUN: Stay down! Stay down!
      (Tyr starts shooting as Arjun runs to him. A little later, Arjun
      sneaks up on Tyr from behind.)
      ARJUN: Please, reach for your gun. Give me an excuse. You said
      you'd kill me next time you saw me. Care to try your luck?
      TYR: I said that I'd kill you. I didn't say when.
      (Tyr jumps off a cliff into the water.)

      [Command]

      (Hunt and Rommie enter as Beka unstraps herself from the slipstream
      chair.)
      BEKA: Hey, you just missed the fun. I snuck past an entire
      Nietzschean battle group and left them chasing their own tails.
      HUNT: Andromeda kept me up to date.
      ROMMIE: It looked like you had everything well in hand.
      BEKA: Thanks for the vote of confidence.
      HUNT: You've earned it. But one thing bothers me.
      BEKA: What's that?
      HUNT: I was curious about how you managed to track Tyr, so I had
      Andromeda review your link-up with the Drift.
      ROMMIE: I had no idea you were so good with IS systems.
      BEKA: Ah. You found my hack.
      HUNT: Ah.
      ROMMIE: I did. You rifled through the station's entire database.
      BEKA: And I found Tyr's departure route.
      HUNT: Hmm. Among other things. You copied files from all over the
      Drift.
      ROMMIE: Scientific research reports, archeological journals,
      shipping data.
      HUNT: Somehow, I get the feeling that Tyr wasn't all you were
      looking for.
      BEKA: Dylan, really, why do you think I'm here? I mean, you won't
      let me use Andromeda for running cargo. I'm not allowed to mine.
      God knows you're not paying me. I like your whole idea of the
      Commonwealth, but do you really think that's the only thing that's
      keeping me around?
      HUNT: I prefer to.
      BEKA: Come on, Dylan. Your entire crew has an ulterior motive. Rev
      Bem wants to use your Commonwealth to spread his faith. Harper is
      in lust with your ship. Tyr's always plotting something, and God
      only knows what the purple one's up to. Does it really surprise you
      to find out that I'm no different?
      HUNT: No, I suppose not.
      BEKA: I'm here, aren't I?
      ROMMIE: For now.
      BEKA: Okay, the way things are going these days, now is all we have
      got.

      [Boat]

      (Tyr quietly surfaces to watch the Dragans moving away from the
      shoreline. He has memories of Hunt, Trance, Harper, Beka and Bem.
      Then he sees Yvaine's boat powering over the surface. He goes back
      underwater while she cuts the engines.)
      YVAINE: Nemo. Nemo?
      (Tyr pulls himself up onto the boat.)
      TYR: You shouldn't be here.
      YVAINE: Stay low. I'll try to get you away from them.

      [Dock]

      YVAINE: Wait for me. I'll get Breyon.
      TYR: I should leave. Head out on my own.
      YVAINE: And go where? You need a guide.
      TYR: Hey! Why are you doing this?
      YVAINE: Maybe the madness finally got me, too.
      (Yvaine runs towards the cottage.)
      BREYON [OC]: Nemo! Come inside, quick! Nemo!

      [Cottage]

      (Tyr runs in. Arjun is waiting behind the door, gun drawn.)
      ARJUN: I wouldn't. Smart little kludge.
      HANNO: See. I told you I could find him for you. And you. Garbage
      removed, I'd say.
      BREYON: I'm sorry, Nemo.
      TYR: I don't blame you.
      HANNO: Oh, how touching. Now, about my reward.
      ARJUN: Of course.
      (One of Arjun's men goes to give Hanno some money, and while he is
      distracted, Arjun shoots him.)
      ARJUN: Humans. Intimidation and strength are the only currency a
      Nietzschean needs, wouldn't you agree?
      TYR: You kill me, and you'll never find your prize.
      ARJUN: That's where intimidation comes in. Either you tell us what
      we want to know, or we'll kill your friends.
      (Tyr folds his arms.)
      ARJUN: Fine.
      (He pushes Yvaine to his henchman, who puts a knife to her throat.)
      TYR: No!
      (Two more henchmen grab Tyr.)
      YVAINE: I'm all right.
      ARJUN: There. That takes care of that. Now, the crate.
      TYR: I'll lead you to it. But you let them go first.
      ARJUN: No, they come with us, for insurance. Lead on.

      [Tunnels]

      ARJUN: There's one thing I don't understand. Why do you care about
      these kludges? They're nothing.
      TYR: Nothing? They're the people who feed you, the people who
      clothe you. If it weren't for enslaved worlds, the Drago Kazov
      Pride would cease to exist. Ruling over them doesn't make you
      strong, it makes you dependent and weak.
      ARJUN: Strong enough to turn Kodiak Pride to dust.
      TYR: I should have killed you. It's this way.
      ARJUN: Wait! You go first.
      (He pushes Breyon forward.)
      ARJUN: We don't want any surprises.
      BREYON: Go to hell.
      (A henchman hits Breyon.)
      ARJUN: You see, they do it to themselves.
      (He points his gun at Breyon.)
      TYR: Stop! Now, it works both ways, doesn't it? So long as I'm
      trying to protect them, you can force me to cooperate. But just as
      soon as they're dead, I'll have nothing to lose.
      ARJUN: Only one problem. There's two of them, and I have a spare.
      YVAINE: Breyon, do as he says.
      ARJUN: You heard her.
      (Breyon and two henchmen walk round the corner. Tyr pushes Arjun,
      gets Yvaine and runs, triggering a device as they go. There is an
      explosion and a big rockfall lands on the Nietzscheans. Arjun
      manages to get out his communicator.)
      ARJUN: Call for reinforcements!
      (Tyr kicks him and fights the only surviving henchman in that area.
      Then he throws Arjun around. Breyon returns and hits Arjun on the
      head with a rock. Tyr deals with the others, but Arjun takes out a
      spiky ball and triggers it. He throws it at Breyon.)
      YVAINE: Breyon!
      (Tyr advances on Arden who cowers.)
      TYR [memory]: I'll take it from here.
      (Arjun hits Tyr while he is distracted.)
      BEM [memory]: He's a high-priced mercenary.
      BEKA [memory]: Tyr.
      HUNT [memory]: Tyr.
      BEM [memory]: Tyr Anasazi.
      ARJUN: Give up! You're nothing! You're no one!
      (Tyr finally retaliates, punctuating his speech with bone-smashing
      blows.)
      TYR: You're wrong. I am Tyr Anasazi of Kodiak Pride, out of
      Victoria by Barbarossa! And I will never surrender!
      (He breaks Arjun's neck, then goes to check on Yvaine and Breyon.)
      TYR: Is he all right?
      YVAINE: I think he'll be okay.
      (Boom! and the rockfall is blown away.)
      TYR: Go!
      (Arjun's reinforcements enter.)
      MAN: There's no way out. Give it up. Now! Fine. Reseal the cave.
      Pump it full of nerve gas.
      HUNT: Excuse us. I don't know what kind of game you're playing
      here, but nerve gas, I would have to say, is out of bounds.
      (Tyr stares at his rescuers on a higher ledge.)
      BEKA: There's a charged forcelance pointed at you. I'd play nice.
      YVAINE: Friends of yours?
      TYR: Yes, I believe they are.

      [Cottage]

      (Tyr takes a look at Drago Museveni and locks up the crate. Hunt
      enters.)
      HUNT: Beka says she's got the Maru up and running again.
      TYR: That's a pleasant surprise. Rather like your arrival.
      HUNT: In the old days, when High Guard officers went missing in
      enemy territory, we found them, no matter what.
      TYR: These aren't the old days.
      HUNT: Not yet, but I'm working on it. We'd better get going, before
      the Drago Kazov bring in more troops.
      TYR: I'll need just a few minutes. Dylan, thank you.

      [Shoreline]

      YVAINE: So, what will you do?
      TYR: I had considered staying, though I couldn't quite tell you
      why.
      YVAINE: You risked your life for whatever is in that crate. I'm
      betting you're not going to just forget about it. And even if you
      wanted to, do you really think the Dragans would leave you alone?
      TYR: I might ask you the same question.
      YVAINE: Midden is a big planet. Breyon and I, we can move,
      disappear. But you could never do that.
      TYR: There is another option. You and Breyon could come with m, us.
      YVAINE: And join you on your grand adventure? I've had enough
      adventure to last a lifetime. All I want is to tend my nets, to
      grow old on the same world where I was born. Plus, on adventures,
      people die. And I don't want to see you or anyone else I care
      about, die. Not again. I guess that makes me a coward.
      TYR: You're much braver than you know. So, live well, Yvaine
      Gwennens-daughter.
      YVAINE: Live well, Tyr Anasazi, out of Victoria by Barbarossa.

      [Eureka Maru]

      (Tyr carries the crate in, AG field fully activated this time.)
      BEKA: So Tyr, are you ever going to tell me what we're transporting
      here?
      TYR: Something that belongs to me. Something that's belonged to me
      all along.
      (Yvaine and Breyon are loading their boat when the Maru streaks
      across the sky. She watches him go.)

<Back to the episode listing

Andromeda and related marks are trademarks of Tribune Company. Copyright   2000
- 2005. The web pages on this site are for educational and entertainment
purposes only. All other copyrights property of their respective holders.

