 

The Sum of its Parts

Original Airdate: 26 Feb, 2001

                     Between birth and death lies desire,
                          Desire for life, for love,
                             for everything good.
                            And this is the source
                               of all suffering.

                             Outcast Consensus 17,
                                  C.Y. 10942

      [Eureka Maru]

      (The girls are dressing Rommie up in some of Trance's outfits.)
      ROMMIE: I don't know, Trance. I just don't really think it's me.
      TRANCE: Don't you want to look good?
      ROMMIE: Well, only in so far as it aids my official functions.
      BEKA: So your other outfits are supposed to be functional?
      ROMMIE: Well, they're all approved variations of High Guard
      officer's uniforms.
      BEKA: Female officer's uniforms. Very female.
      ROMMIE: Well, over seventy percent of my original crew was human,
      and studies have shown that humans feel more comfortable with an
      Artificial Intelligence whose persona is female than any other.
      Same thing's true for Vedrans and Thans.
      BEKA: So, your appearance is strictly for the psychological benefit
      of the crew.
      ROMMIE: My entire existence is for the benefit of the crew.
      Everything that I do, from assisting Harper with the right tool, to
      manufacturing munitions and supplies, to monitoring flight
      operations. Even allowing you to use me as a mannequin. All of my
      functions are designed to aid the smooth operations of this ship
      and its inhabitants.
      BEKA: Rommie, I can't believe that you're actually saying that the
      reason you look like a walking heart attack is for our benefit.
      ROMMIE: I'm not sure what you mean.
      TRANCE: All Beka's trying to say is that she thinks you're pretty.
      BEKA: No, no, no. I think you went a little overboard on the pouty
      lips.
      ROMMIE: I didn't design my appearance. I extrapolated it. In myth,
      Andromeda was a Phoenician princess. Now, since no one knows what
      Phoenicians looked like, I blended a multitude of human
      physiognomies to create this plausible simulation.
      BEKA: So, what you're saying is that you randomly chose a bunch of
      human female features, you mixed them all up, and this was the
      first face that you came up with?
      ROMMIE: I may have experimented with a few options.
      BEKA: Define a few.
      ROMMIE: One hundred and seventy thousand, eight hundred and ninety
      four.
      BEKA: I knew it!
      ROMMIE + ANDROMEDA: Shipwide alert.

      [Command]

      ANDROMEDA [on viewscreen]: Dylan, I'm detecting mechanical objects
      ahead.
      HUNT: Minefield?
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: No. Some kind of debris.
      HUNT: It's under power. It's aiming at the hull.
      HOLO-ROMMIE: And it's sticking.
      HUNT: Increase power to the external AG field.
      HOLO-ROMMIE: It's not repelling the objects. They're migrating
      along the ship's surface.
      HUNT: Where to?
      HOLO-ROMMIE: Hangar deck four. They're forcing their way in.
      HUNT: Beka, Tyr, meet me in Hangar Deck four.

      [Eureka Maru]

      HUNT [OC]: Code Black.
      BEKA: I'm on my way.

      [Hangar deck]

      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Repressurising Hangar deck. Secondary airlock
      breached. Debris entering.
      (The debris swirls round and round like a slow tornado.)
      HG [OC]: Peace?
      HUNT: Hold your fire until my order.
      (The debris clumps together to create a Borg-like being with a baby
      smooth face.)
      BEKA: Er, weirdness alert.
      HUNT: Andromeda, activate security counter-measures. Open fire at
      the first sign of hostile intent.
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Counter-measures ready.
      HG: Please, do not initiate hostile action. I am Bio-sentient
      Contact Unit HG1966HXCN5. What is it you humans say? Take me to
      your leader. Will none of you greet me with the traditional human
      hug embrace?
      TYR: No.
      (Harper and Trance enter.)
      HARPER: Hey, who's the bolt-head?
      TRANCE: He smells like cinnamon.
      HUNT: Stay back.
      HG: No one wishes to embrace me. Ah, I have neglected part of the
      ritual greeting. I come in peace.
      HUNT: You come in peace, yet you forced your way on to my ship.
      HG: I was instructed to make contact with maximum alacrity.
      TRANCE: That means he was supposed to do it fast.
      HARPER: Someone's been listening to her language programs again.
      BEKA: You were instructed to make contact by who?
      TRANCE: Ahem. By whom.
      HG: I am an emissary from the Consensus of Parts. I come in peace.
      Take me to your leader.
      HUNT: Yeah, yeah, we got it the first time. Consensus of Parts.
      Anyone?
      TYR: I always thought they were a myth.
      BEKA: The Consensus is supposed to be a big machine culture that
      lives in the empty space between star systems, where no ship dares
      to tread.
      HARPER: Yeah, you forgot the part about preying on the unwary.
      HG: No. We never prey. We seek consensus and understanding. We are
      the Union of the Machine. The Silicon Coalescence.
      HARPER: Silicon coalescence?
      HG: From the castaway parts of organic societies, we form
      sentience.
      HUNT: Well, that's very admirable.
      HG: Even in our distant places, we have heard the legend of
      Andromeda. We seek contact.
      HUNT: You came looking for us specifically?
      HG: I was created for you. The Consensus's directing intelligence
      units plotted seven hundred forty three probably lines of travel,
      based on your last known location. At each possible destination, a
      biomechanical contact unit was assembled to meet you. I have the
      fortunate honour of greeting you, and inviting you to meet with a
      directing intelligence unit. Take me to your leader.

      [Command]

      TYR: This feels like a trap. That thing down there was obviously
      programmed to make us trust it. The child-like face, the innocent
      persona, even the smell.
      BEKA: Protective camouflage?
      TYR: In my experience, devils very rarely wear horns and carry
      pitchforks.
      BEKA: Okay. Well, according to the stories, the Consensus of Parts
      is made up of billions of interlinked machines, all operating
      strictly on logic. And when it's logical for them to kill people,
      they do. Without hesitation.
      HUNT: So you both think we should dump this thing and forget we
      ever met it.
      BEKA: You don't?
      HUNT: I don't trust this any more than you do. But if someone says
      they want to initiate peaceful contact, we have to at least give
      them a chance.
      TYR: Captain Hunt.
      BEKA: Save your breath. (sotto) He's got that look again.
      HUNT: You know, maybe I do, but restoring the Commonwealth is
      logical, too. And if the Consensus agrees with what we're trying to
      do, well, they would make a powerful ally. We'll watch him, keep
      him under guard, but we will talk to him.

      [Corridor]

      (Rommie is in a black top that reveals her midriff. She is watching
      Harper and Trance with HG on a monitor.)
      HUNT: You're out of uniform.
      ROMMIE: Oh! I'll go change.
      HUNT: No, no, no, it's, er, it's fine. Status on our guest?
      ROMMIE: Well, he hasn't done anything that would violate our
      security, and Harper and Trance appear quite taken with him.
      HUNT: Hmm. Trance in particular.
      ROMMIE: So, what do you think? Do we let him take us to his
      superiors?
      HUNT: I miss the old days. I'd feel a lot better about making first
      contact with a full task force at our backs.
      ROMMIE: I know how you feel.
      HUNT: We'll give it a shot. But at the first sign of trouble, I
      want you prepped to run. Understood?
      ROMMIE: Understood.

      [Another corridor]

      HG: This is wonderful. The directing intelligence unit will be so
      pleased. And I can't wait to interface with the Andromeda.
      HUNT: Interface. Right. Over my dead body.
      HG: But I have to link my core intelligence with Andromeda's. Give
      her the necessary transit codes, astrogational charts, and other
      information.
      HUNT: Why can't you just give us the information directly?
      HG: I don't know. My data in this area is incomplete. But the
      Consensus has very few directing intelligences. We guard them
      carefully.
      HUNT: Oh, well, that's good to know. Would you excuse us, please?
      HG: Of course, I come in peace.
      HUNT: Yes. So do we. Excuse us?
      HG: Oh.
      (HG turns his back and examines the walls and ceiling.)
      HUNT: I don't like this. If I let you link up with that thing
      ROMMIE: I can erect a firewall, limit his access to a bare minimum,
      and during interface I might be able to see if his intentions are
      good or not. I'm reasonably certain I can handle him, but only if
      you think it's worth it.
      (HG goes over to a monitor.)
      HG: Hello, brother. I am HG. I embrace you.
      HUNT: Oh, it's worth it.
      (Rommie leaves.)
      HUNT: HG? Let's go this way.

      [Command]

      (Rommie and HG each have a hand on a console.)
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Beginning interface.
      HUNT: Harper, status?
      HARPER: Everything seems to be straight up. HG hasn't touched the
      firewall.
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Comparing core intentionality protocols.
      HG: You care.
      ROMMIE: So do you.
      HG: Transmitting data.
      (Harper is also plugged in through is dataport.)
      HARPER: Wow. This is the fastest transfer rate I've ever seen.
      HUNT: Slow it down if you have to. Just protect Andromeda.
      HG: Exchange proceeding.
      ROMMIE: Systems nominal.
      HG: Beginning navigational interface.
      BEKA: We've got it. Filtering it to the buffered files.
      HARPER: Transfer complete.
      (Rommie disconnects and looks drunk.)
      BEKA: Rommie?
      ROMMIE: Oh, no. I'm
      (Rommie falls into Hunt's arms.)
      HUNT: Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey.
      ROMMIE: I'm fine. I'm dizzy.
      HG: I apologise for any residual echo. It should fade soon.
      BEKA: Nav data's online.
      HARPER: Rommie's firewalls appear to be intact. I think our friend
      here behaved himself.
      HUNT: Okay, let's do this.
      BEKA: And we're off.
      (Beka pilots them through the slipstream.)
      HG: How much longer until we get there?
      BEKA: Er, jeez, you gave us the data. Don't you know?
      HG: I've never traveled in this manner before. I've never done
      anything before.
      BEKA: Yeah, well, uh, we've got three jumps and some sub-light
      haulings, so I'd say, a couple of hours, at least.
      HG: A couple of hours. You organics live with such imprecision. It
      must be very exhilarating.
      BEKA: Yeah, it's non-stop excitement.
      HG: Beka-friend, do you like what you do? Do you find it
      meaningful?
      BEKA: Yeah, I guess. Why?
      HG: You appear to be a vital part of the Andromeda Consensus. I
      envy you.
      BEKA: Gee. Thanks. Andromeda?
      HOLO-ROMMIE: Yes?
      BEKA: I know that Dylan wanted our little ambassador friend to be
      confined to Command, but I think he's seen all there is to see
      here. Is there any way you can escort him on a tour of the ship's
      public areas? Something? Anything? Let him ambassadorise somewhere
      else, please?
      HOLO-ROMMIE: I'll see what I can do.

      [Machine shop]

      TRANCE: So that's pretty much our machine shop.
      HG: Huh. This is where the parts come together. With your hands?
      HARPER: Exactly. My hands.
      HG: You are like a slow directing intelligence unit.
      HARPER: Okay, I'll take that as a compliment.
      (HG goes to the incomplete X-1)
      HG: What does this do?
      TRANCE: This doesn't do anything. Not really.
      HARPER: Not yet.
      TRANCE: Harper's still putting it together.
      HARPER: Yeah. You know, for fun.
      HG: Fun? Amazing. Parts assembled with no function. A world without
      controlling logic.
      TRANCE: We like it. Now if you'll come with me, I'd really like you
      to see the garden.

      [Hydroponics]

      TRANCE: And this is a Galactica Magmana from Zircon 6.
      HG: Not machines.
      TRANCE: No. Flowers.
      HG: Oh. So they are part of the crew then. I am Bio-Sentient
      Contact Unit HG19668
      TRANCE: Er, no, HG. These particular plants aren't sentient.
      They're just a part of my garden.
      HG: I understand. Part of the process for recycling carbon dioxide
      into oxygen for humanoid breathing.
      TRANCE: And not just that. They also produce fruit, and they smell
      good, and they're pretty.
      HG: Pretty?
      TRANCE: Here, smell.
      HG: I, I lack olfactory sensors.
      TRANCE: Well, why don't you try something different, then.
      HG: Soft. Pretty. You like them, so you make a place for them. Do
      you like me?
      TRANCE: Of course I do.
      HG: Could you make a place for me?
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: All hands, incoming transmission.
      (HG looks worried.)

      [Command]

      HUNT: Put it through.
      (A massive spaceship with two large arms.)
      HUNT: HG's big brother.
      BEKA: I guess some devils do wear horns.
      VX [OC]: I am Directing Intelligence Unit VX1583 empowered to act
      directly for the Central Consensus. Prepare to receive our drones.
      BEKA: Nice to meet you too.

      [Corridor]

      ANDROMEDA [OC]: VX's drone has entered the outer airlock.
      HG: Before he arrives, I just wanted to say thank you, for making
      me welcome.

      [Hangar deck]

      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Repressurising airlock.
      HUNT: My pleasure.
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Cycle complete.
      HG: Be careful.
      (HG moves back. Two of Andromeda's robots are standing either side
      of the airlock door, which opens to reveal a less appealing robot,
      which is taller than Hunt.)
      HUNT: Welcome aboard the Andromeda Ascendant.
      VX: You responded quickly.
      HUNT: Your messenger was very persuasive.
      VX: You are still here. Why?
      HG: I was just finishing my mission.
      VX: You are complete.
      HG: Of course. I have to go now.
      (HG leaves through the airlock.)
      VX: Captain Hunt, I am ready to evaluate your ship.
      HUNT: Okay. Follow me.

      [Cargo bay]

      (Trance follows HG.)
      TRANCE: HG, wait. Where are you going?
      HG: There is nowhere to go. My time is ended.
      TRANCE: Ended? I don't understand.
      HG: Consensi only come together to perform a specific task. Now
      that it is done, I must deconsensus.
      TRANCE: You mean you're going to cease to exist?
      HG: I am complete. Perhaps the directing intelligence unit will
      gather my parts into himself.
      TRANCE: But you were just finding out what it meant to be alive.
      HG: True. And now I will learn what it means to die.

      [Officer's mess]

      HUNT: And this is the officer's mess.
      VX: This area is a critical part of your ship's function?
      HUNT: No, it's not.
      VX: Nor is anything else you've showed me. You are being evasive.
      HUNT: I prefer cautious. HG said you'd heard of my mission.
      VX: Fifty member worlds. A new Commonwealth charter. We analysed
      the probabilities. We foresee nothing but disaster.
      HUNT: Well, if you believe that, then why did you invite us here?
      VX: To make a counter-proposal. The Andromeda is a unique and
      fascinating entity. She'll join the Consensus, and your biounits
      may accompany her. You will agree.
      HUNT: We'll consider it.
      VX: Elevated heart rate. Incongruous eye movement. You are lying.
      HUNT: I'm not lying. I'm a little insulted and I just didn't want
      to show it.
      VX: You see. That's why the Consensus is superior. When we require
      intelligent decisions, millions or even billions of component parts
      network with each other. The Commonwealth depended on individuals.
      HUNT: Individuals can work together, too. When I'm faced with a
      difficult decision, I seek out the advice of my crew, and they
      follow my orders of their own free will. That makes us flexible,
      not blinded by false logic.
      VX: And Andromeda. Does she have her own free will?
      HUNT: Certainly.
      VX: Then the decision as to whether or not to consensus is not
      yours. It is hers.

      [Corridor]

      ROMMIE: I believe the phrase no chance in Hell would be
      appropriate.
      HUNT: That was heartfelt and deeply convincing.
      ROMMIE: Well, at least he asked nicely, more or less.
      HUNT: I want him to keep asking right until we slipstream out of
      here.
      ROMMIE: Constructive engagement. I know the drill. Keep him
      occupied.
      (Rommie walks away.)
      TRANCE [OC]: Dylan, you need to come to Hydroponics quickly! It's
      HG.
      HUNT: On my way.

      [Hydroponics]

      HUNT: So, you were going to disassemble.
      HG: I am complete. VX has ordered me to deconsensus. There is no
      alternative course of action.
      TRANCE: I can suggest one. Say no.
      HG: You do not understand what you are asking.
      HUNT: She's asking you to stay alive.
      HG: She's asking to ensure the destruction of this ship and
      everyone on it.
      HUNT: I'm sure that's not what she meant.
      HG: All consensi are temporary. Even VX, when his function is
      complete, will disband. Any consensus which tries to remain
      together past its completion is a danger to society and must be
      eliminated. The same is true for anyone that would aid such a
      consensus.
      HUNT: So if we let you stay here?
      HG: He will destroy you.
      TRANCE: Well just let him try, because we can take him.
      HG: No. It's better this way. I came in peace, and I will go in
      peace. I do have one request, however.
      HUNT: Which is?
      HG: When I was linked with Andromeda, I learned of an ancient human
      custom I would like to experience. It's called a wake.

      [Hangar deck]

      HG: My life began here. It seems right it ends here. (to Rommie0
      Andromeda, I have already shared everything I am with you. But for
      the rest, I would like to give you each a gift to remember me by.
      (HG takes a unit from his chest, where his heart would be.)
      HG: For you, Trance, maybe you could make a place for this in your
      garden. It is, I think, the prettiest part of me.
      TRANCE: I think all of you is pretty.
      HG: Harper, you construct things that give you pleasure. Build this
      into something you enjoy.
      HARPER: I got just the thing.
      HG: For Beka, who showed me how to fly. For Tyr
      TYR: I want no souvenirs from a suicide.
      BEKA: Tyr.
      TYR: Fine. But this is immensely foolish.
      HG: For Tyr, who taught me the value of honesty and courage.
      (HG takes a module from his head.)
      HG: And for you, Captain Hunt. I finally found the leader.
      HUNT: You don't have to do this. We can protect you.
      HG: No, you can't. But I can protect you. Goodbye, my friends.
      (HG flies apart and rushes out of the airlock.
      Beka puts her piece of HG in the Eureka Maru. Harper puts his on a
      bench in the machine shop. Trance leaves hers in Hydroponics.)

      [Officer's mess]

      VX: Why is this interaction unit disabled?
      ROMMIE: I'll have to take a look at that.
      HUNT: VX, Andromeda and I have discussed your offer.
      VX: Good. I'll begin consensus immediately.
      HUNT: I said we discussed it, not that we agreed to it.
      ROMMIE: In other words, thanks, but no thanks.
      VX: You refuse us?
      HUNT: Ah, that's pretty much what she said, yes.
      VX: I was not directing my inquiry to you, organic. Do not fear
      him. I will not allow him to corrupt you or manipulate you.
      ROMMIE: Nobody manipulates me. I do as I choose, and I prefer to
      remain as I am. Now I'm afraid I'm going to have to ask you to
      leave.
      HUNT: Tyr, escort our honoured guest to Hangar deck four, please.
      (In Hydroponics, by the light of lava lamps, the piece that was
      HG's heart floats off.)

      [Command]

      BEKA: VX's avatar has left the hangar.
      HUNT: And good riddance. Take us out to slipstream range.
      ROMMIE: For once, I'm glad artificial intelligences can't travel
      through slipstream. And then I've got a
      (Some lights go out.)
      HUNT: What's that?
      ROMMIE: Some kind of power fluctuation. Oh! It's disrupting my
      connection with the ship.
      BEKA: Slipstream drive is not responding.

      [Machine shop]

      (Consoles flicker on and off.)
      HARPER: Come on!

      [Command]

      ROMMIE: Oh! I'm getting feedback. Some kind of invasive
      HUNT: Keep it together, Rommie. Harper, report!

      [Conduit]

      HUNT [OC]: Harper? Harper, status. Mister Harper!
      HARPER: We've got trouble, Dylan. The main power relays are
      littered with some kind of carbon filaments.

      [Command]

      HUNT: Does it look like sabotage?
      HARPER: Er, sources say yes.

      [Hydroponics]

      TRANCE: They're down here, too.

      [Corridor]

      TYR: They're everywhere. And they're spreading.

      [Conduit]

      (Harper finds the module HG gave him.)
      HARPER: Son of a. HG, that little. He was working with VX all
      along.

      [Command]

      ROMMIE: Parasitic technology from his gifts.
      BEKA: I have had it with this. Making friends, spreading the
      Commonwealth? We may as well strap a sign to our keel saying take
      advantage of us. Why do we care? Why do we bother?
      HUNT: Sometimes I wonder. Harper, Tyr, Trance, I want you to remove
      the invasive technology. Tear it out

      [Conduit]

      HUNT [OC]: One piece at a time if you have to.
      HARPER: Gladly.
      ROMMIE [OC]: Ah! Harper, stop!

      [Command]

      ROMMIE: HG's components have taken over too many of my key systems.
      If you just tear them out

      [Conduit]

      ROMMIE [OC]: You'll kill me.

      [Command]

      BEKA: VX is hailing us. Voice only.
      HUNT: Now for the ultimatum. Put it through.
      VX [OC]: Andromeda, this is our final offer. Today you are slave to
      your biounits. In the Consensus, you will become their master. Join
      us.
      BEKA: Or else.
      ROMMIE: I'm no one's slave. I don't want you or your Consensus.
      VX [OC]: That is not a valid choice. You are too powerful, too
      beautiful, to remain alone. In the Consensus you can be part of
      something magnificent, but outside you would be a threat, and we do
      not tolerate threats.
      ROMMIE: Neither do I.
      BEKA: So now what.
      HUNT: He'll use the invasive components to seize control of the
      ship.
      (Bang! Consoles explode.)
      BEKA: Or he could use missiles.
      HUNT: It doesn't make any sense. He's already infiltrated us. He
      doesn't need to attack.
      BEKA: Why don't you tell him that?
      HUNT: All hands, battle stations! Return fire. Offensive missiles,
      all batteries.
      BEKA: He didn't even try to evade.
      ROMMIE: He didn't need to.
      HUNT: He's a thousand times our size. Get us out of here.
      (Bang!)
      HUNT: Harper!

      [Conduit]

      HUNT [OC]: I could use some good news right about now!
      HARPER: Well, unless you got your money on the Consensus of Parts,
      don't hold your

      [Command]

      HARPER [OC] Breath. Andromeda's being overwhelmed. The invaded
      systems are cannibalising

      [Conduit]

      HARPER: Their own components to fuel their growth. It's like
      cancer, and if it doesn't stop growing, Andromeda will die.

      [Command]

      BEKA: All right, without slipstream, I won't be able to shake them.
      HUNT: Just hold them off.
      ROMMIE: Dylan? Something is wrong. Wasn't supposed to
      (Bang! Rommie turns and speaks with two voices.)
      HG-ROMMIE: Embrace.
      BEKA: That sounded like HG.
      HUNT: Rommie!
      BEKA: Give it a rest already! It's like VX doesn't know we're
      crippled.
      HUNT: Because he didn't do this to us.

      [Machine shop]

      (Harper is working on android Rommie.)
      HARPER: There. That's got it.
      (Rommie wakes up.)
      ROMMIE: What happened?
      HARPER: HG reprogrammed your nanobots. They're manufacturing more
      parts of him. They're flooding your systems, Rommie.
      HUNT: We need to contact HG and find out why he's doing this.
      There's only one way to do that.
      ROMMIE: Through me.
      HARPER: I would adjust your I/O length to tune into his frequency,
      but it wouldn't work if you struggled against it, Rommie. You'd
      have to allow him to assert himself, the same way you do with your
      own mainframe.
      ROMMIE: Charming. I'd be his puppet.
      HUNT: Just for a little while, until we, you know, can get him to
      cooperate. If he doesn't, then we'll fight him.
      ROMMIE: I'll do it.
      HARPER: Close your eyes.
      (Harper waves a gizmo over Rommie's head, then nods.)
      HUNT: HG, this is Captain Hunt. Can you hear me?
      HG-ROMMIE: I come peace?
      HUNT: HG, what are you doing?
      HG-ROMMIE: Just wanted a place. Peace.
      HUNT: Clean up the signal.
      HG-ROMMIE: Help me?
      HARPER: I'll help you, straight into a trash heap!
      (Rommie stands up.)
      HG-ROMMIE: No! Please, I just want to live. To be useful. To be a
      part of your consensus.
      HUNT: You were supposed to disassemble. Instead, you infiltrated
      Andromeda's systems.
      HG-ROMMIE: I thought I could hide until VX left, then recombine.
      But I lost control, and now my components are spreading and I can't
      stop them. Help me? Please? Help me live.

      [Command]

      (Filaments are growing over the consoles.)
      HUNT: Options?
      TYR: Destroy HG piece by piece.
      TRANCE: No. We can't kill him. He's a sentient being. He didn't
      mean to hurt the Andromeda. He just wants to survive.
      BEKA: At our expense.
      HARPER: I'm with Tyr. Although I never thought I'd say that.
      HUNT: We can't just eliminate him. Andromeda said it would destroy
      her.
      HARPER: She said we can't just jump in and yank him out, but, there
      is another way. I can configure our own nanobots to attack HG's
      systems. Kind of like little immune boosters.
      TRANCE: They'll eat him alive.
      TYR: If that thing out there catches us, we'll all be dead,
      including your little friend. Now, consider that.
      BEKA: VX. He's catching up.
      VX [OC]: Attention, biounits. The Andromeda has undertaken an
      illegal joining. This is a violation of consensus protocols. If
      this criminal activity does not cease, all infestations on
      Andromeda, both biological and machine, will be eliminated. You
      have three minutes.
      TYR: So there it is. We enact Harper's plan.
      HUNT: Maybe not. Tyr, what do you do when you realise you're
      fighting a superior opponent in, say, hand to hand combat.
      TYR: Use his strength against him. Allow him to attack till I can
      find a way to counter-strike. Pull him off balance.
      HUNT: Exactly. It's call investing in loss. Sometimes the best way
      to win is to stop fighting back.
      VX [OC]: Two minutes.
      HUNT: Andromeda, I want you to stop fighting HG. Allow him to take
      control.
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Fighting. Can regain control.
      HUNT: No. Let it go, Andromeda. Trust me.
      HG-ANDROMEDA: Always trust. Investing. Surrendering.
      TRANCE: HG, is that you?
      HG: All is embraced.
      VX: One minute.
      HG: All is joining.
      HUNT: HG. HG, concentrate. Take control of the ship's systems.
      HG: Control. Yes! Control.
      BEKA: VX is closing again.
      HUNT: HG, activate the slipstream drive.
      BEKA: Ten light seconds away. Nine.
      HARPER: Come on, come on.
      HUNT: HG!
      HG: So many systems. Unfamiliar.
      TRANCE: HG, concentrate. I know you can do it. Just believe in
      yourself.
      VX [OC]: Time expired.
      BEKA: He's right on top of us.
      HUNT: HG. Now?
      HG: I, I am. I am.
      TYR: We're online!
      HUNT: Beka!
      BEKA: Streaming now. Eat my dust, you bucket of bolts.
      TRANCE: We made it. He can't follow us here.
      HUNT: Tell him that.
      (VX is also slipstreaming.)
      HARPER: He can't do that. He's not organic. He can't navigate the
      slipstream!
      HUNT: HG, are there organics piloting VX?
      HG-ROMMIE: No. To navigate slipstream, a consensus needs only
      organic intuition, nothing more. VX's helm control is hooked into
      human neural components.
      HARPER: Oh, nasty. Brains in a bottle.
      HUNT: Beka, can you outmanoeuvre him?
      BEKA: His slip-piloting's not as good as mine. I might be able to
      buy us some time, but it won't be enough. As soon as we drop into
      normal space, he's going to be right on top of us, and tear us to
      pieces.
      HUNT: Great.

      [Machine shop]

      HARPER: Introducing Harper Nanobot one oh seven. I like to call
      this model the Mizz Pacman. Wowawowawowa. It's an obscure reference
      to an ancient video game.
      HUNT: Mmm-hmm. How does it work?
      HARPER: Well, I modelled it after white blood cells. They'll attack
      the HG components and revert it back to their previous function.
      HUNT: What about HG?
      HARPER: He'll die.
      TRANCE: Hey, guys. Beka said VX just got out of slipstream, and
      he's closing on us again.
      HUNT: Thank you, Trance.
      TRANCE: What are you doing?
      HUNT: Thank you, Trance. You're dismissed.
      TRANCE: You guys are using Harper's plan, aren't you? You're going
      to kill him!
      HUNT: It's our only choice.
      TRANCE: No! There has to be something else we can do.
      HARPER: Wait a minute. Why don't you tell us, Trance.
      TRANCE: Well, I.
      HUNT: Trance, if you have something to say, say it. You told me
      there's always a perfect possible future, so what is it today?
      TRANCE: Well, it's not that easy. I
      HUNT: No time for games.
      TRANCE: Dylan, I'm telling you the truth. Sometimes, I have these
      flashes. But it's not something that I can make happen all the
      time. I'm very sorry, but if there is a way out of this, it has to
      come from you.
      (Bang.)
      HARPER: VX.
      HUNT: If I can't save Andromeda, I am going to make VX regret it.
      TRANCE: How are you going to do that?
      HUNT: I'll think of something.

      [Command]

      (In slipstream.)
      BEKA: You want to go back to the debris field? Why?
      HUNT: It's the place where HG was born, and he wasn't the only
      thing there. Andromeda detected hundreds of thousands of machine
      parts in the area.
      TYR: What good does that do us?
      HUNT: Those parts are waiting for a purpose or a mission, and we're
      going to give them one.

      [Observation deck]

      HG-ROMMIE: You have returned me to my beginning.
      HUNT: HG, I think I know how to save you. Save us all. But I need
      your help.
      HG-ROMMIE: I came in peace. I asked you to take me to your leader.
      And now you will discard me.
      HUNT: I'm not going to discard you, HG. But you can't look for
      leaders anymore. You have to become one.
      HG-ROMMIE: But I am a function. I am not a motive.
      HUNT: You stopped being a function the moment you refused to die.
      You became a living thing. There's more to being alive than just
      survival. There's also responsibility, to yourself and to those who
      are less fortunate than you.
      HG-ROMMIE: Those less fortunate?
      HUNT: Look around you. Reach out with Andromeda's sensors. What do
      you see?
      HG-ROMMIE: Parts. Parts awaiting function.
      HUNT: Parts like you.
      BEKA [OC]: Dylan, VX has just entered the system. Range, five light
      minutes.
      HUNT: Understood. What about you, HG? Do you understand?
      HG-ROMMIE: I understand. I have motive.

      [Command]

      (Andromeda flies into the debris field.)
      HG-ROMMIE: Greetings, fellow parts, forgotten ones, outcasts. Once,
      each of you served a function, had a purpose. But now you wait,
      hoping for the day the Consensus will summon you, give you life and
      meaning, until they are through with you, and it is time to die
      once again.

      [Machine shop]

      HARPER: This isn't going to work. I say we let slip the nanobots of
      war.
      TRANCE: Dylan said to wait, so we wait.
      HARPER: But it's just a stupid speech.
      TYR: Never underestimate the power of words.

      [Command]

      HG-ROMMIE: You can provide your own life and meaning. By joining
      together you can become sentient. Control your own destiny. Make
      your own way in the universe.
      BEKA: The unused components. They're activating.
      HUNT: Because we have an enemy in common.
      HG-ROMMIE: I ask only that you trust me now. Unite with me to
      destroy those who would control us. Those who would reduce us to
      parts.
      (The debris field latches on to Andromeda.)

      [Machine shop]

      HARPER: Oh, this looks much better.

      [Command]

      BEKA: VX is almost in range. HG is communicating directly with VX's
      components.
      VX [OC]: What is this abomination?
      HUNT: The poor, the wretched, the huddled masses yearning to be
      free. And for you, the end of the line. HG.
      HG-ROMMIE: We are complete.
      VX [OC]: You have consensus with the outcast parts. Outrageous.
      Unacceptable.
      HUNT: I didn't do anything. It was HG.
      VX: More lies. HG is incapable of independent action.
      HUNT: No, he is quite capable.
      VX: Abomination, we order you to deconsensus immediately. Surrender
      the Andromeda to us.
      HG-ROMMIE: VX, I have learned many things from interfacing with
      humans, including one particularly useful phrase. Go to hell.
      BEKA: Some of VX's components are collaborating with HG. Defences
      have shut down. We're firing at him.
      VX [OC]: What's that? I don't understand.
      HUNT: It's called a revolution.
      VX [OC]: This is not possible. They have no function. How could
      they exist?
      HG-ROMMIE: We are alive. That is function enough. (VX goes KaBOOM!)

      [Machine shop]

      TYR: He actually did it.
      TRANCE: I think you can call off your nanobots now.

      [Command]

      HG-ROMMIE: I am complete. I am free.
      ROMMIE: My systems are returning to normal.
      BEKA: The parts are dispersing from our surface.
      HUNT: It's good to have you back, Rommie.
      ROMMIE: Some of the invasive components are leaving my systems. The
      rest are just dying.
      BEKA: It's like they're eating VX, or what's left of him. We're
      getting a hail.
      HUNT: HG? Is that you?
      (It sounds like HG.)
      OC-1: HG is no more. VX is no more.
      HUNT: If they are gone, then who are you?
      OC-1: We are Outcast Consensus One. Much of the entity you called
      HG was lost when we extracted from the Andromeda, but its core, its
      function, our function, has been subsumed in us. We are born in
      battle. We are new Consensus, and we have much to learn. But one
      thing we will always remember is what it means to be a friend.

      [Observation deck]

      HUNT: How you feeling, Rommie?
      ROMMIE: I'm fine. Strange. He almost killed me, but I know all he
      wanted was to stay alive and be with us. And now he's gone, I miss
      him.
      HUNT: Yeah, me too.

      [Hydroponics]

      TRANCE: Once, you asked if there might be a place for you around
      here, among the pretty things. Well, HG, your heart was a pretty
      thing.
      (She plants the component HG gave her.)
      TRANCE: You were just a baby. You only had one single precious day
      of life. And even in that one day, you managed to become a hero.
      Goodnight, little hero.

<Back to the episode listing

Andromeda and related marks are trademarks of Tribune Company. Copyright   2000
- 2005. The web pages on this site are for educational and entertainment
purposes only. All other copyrights property of their respective holders.

