 

The Devil Take the Hindmost

Original Airdate: 16 Apr, 2001

                       Only those born guilty Recognize
                           Innocence for what it Is:
                       The rarest thing in the Universe,
                            And the most Precious.

                      THE ANOINTED, The Finder of the Way
                                   C.Y. 9799

      [Corridor]

      (Andromeda is docked at a Drift.)
      ROMMIE: Trance says the relief supplies are ready for transport,
      and Tyr's security squads and the volunteers from the Drift are on
      board.
      HUNT: Good.
      BEKA: Good news and bad news from the Pythians. The good news is
      that the earthquakes from the comet strikes have stopped. The bad
      news is that the entire planet is now shrouded in dust. Anyone who
      wasn't starving is now freezing to death. You know, someone is
      going to burn for this. Awarding a terraforming contract to
      Nightsiders was no stroke of genius.

      [Rev Bem's quarters]

      (Bem is in front of his altar. It includes a photograph of a human
      woman.)
      BEM: By Divine grace, I touch the shadow and reveal the light. I am
      the darkness become light. I am the darkness become truth. I am the
      darkness become the Way.
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Rev Bem.
      BEM: Yes, Andromeda.
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Sorry to interrupt, but there's a message for you.
      It's labeled urgent.
      BEM: Who is it from, please?
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Another Wayist. Someone named Brother Thaddeus.
      BEM: Thaddeus Blake?

      [Command]

      HUNT: Clear all moorings.
      BEM: Dylan, wait. We cannot leave the Drift. Not yet. There's
      something I think you need to see.
      (Bem calls up his message.)
      BLAKE [hologram]: The Hajira called it Serendipity, the accidental
      discovery of something wonderful. But now they've been discovered
      too, by slavers working for uranium miners. The slavers raided two
      nearby settlements in the last three months, and we expect an
      attack on this Mission in no more than a few weeks. Brother, I
      understand you've made some powerful friends. I could use their
      help. Now.

      [Eureka Maru]

      (Hunt checks a box of armaments.)
      BEKA: So, you're just going to take off and let me clean up that
      mess on Pythia?
      HUNT: We've got two emergencies, two ships, and two captains. The
      math works out perfectly.
      BEKA: Yeah, I guess. Are you sure you don't want to trade?
      HUNT: I've got a little more combat experience than you. No
      offence.
      BEKA: None taken. I've got this delivering cargo thing pretty much
      down.
      HUNT: This isn't just any cargo drop. Millions of lives are
      depending on you. If you find yourself in a tough spot, don't
      forget Rommie's an old pro at this. You'll be glad she's around.
      BEKA: What if you find you've bitten off more than you can chew?
      HUNT: Then we'll just have to fight a holding action until you
      finish your relief mission and fly to our rescue.
      BEKA: No pressure.

      [Forest]

      BEM: I hope we hid the Maru well enough. We wouldn't want the
      slavers spotting it from orbit.
      HUNT: No, they'll never find it. Well, unless they use a deep radar
      sweep.
      BEM: As Harper would say, that would suck.
      HUNT: You know, Rev, there are some words that should never trip
      across the tongue of a Magog, and suck is one of them.
      BEM: Well, I'll make a note of that.
      BLAKE: Behemial!
      BEM: Brother Thaddeus.
      BLAKE: You made it! Blessed be.

      [Mission]

      BLAKE: We built the stockade last year. The Hajira are the
      descendants of human settlers who lost their technology after the
      fall. But the culture they've developed, the poetry they find in
      everyday life, it's extraordinary. I came here to teach them basic
      literacy, modern medicine, engineering, and of course, to open
      their eyes to the Way.
      BEM: As you opened mine so long ago.
      MAN: The Anointed One!
      (The villagers gather around Bem.)
      HUNT: Looks like your reputation precedes you, Rev.
      BEM: Indeed.
      BLAKE: This is Tiama. She leads our hunting parties.
      TIAMA: Brother Thaddeus said you would bring a warship, and that
      the slavers would never, ever be able to land.
      HUNT: We didn't bring a warship, and we didn't bring an army, but
      we did bring weapons to help you defend yourselves, if you're
      willing.
      VILLAGERS: Yes! We'll fight. We'll be with you.

      [Corridor]

      ROMMIE: Trance, I'm downloading all the formulas for Than
      antibiotics into the nano-cauldron. Harper.
      TRANCE [OC]: Thanks, Rommie.
      ROMMIE: Tell the courier we're still at least five jumps away.
      HARPER [OC]: Check.
      BEKA: Meanwhile, I'm playing solitaire in the officer's lounge.
      Shouldn't I be barking orders? Something other than sitting on my
      hands waiting for an update?
      ROMMIE: A good captain knows when to delegate.
      BEKA: I'm all for delegating. I just need to be in the loop, same
      as Dylan.
      ROMMIE: Fair enough. Perhaps the commanding officer would like to
      ask Tyr why he and his mercenaries are stealing from the relief
      supplies.

      [Chapel]

      BEM: Thank you for the tour, but I must ask. Your people seem
      somewhat infatuated with me.
      ARUN: I'm sorry, Brother. It's just we've never seen a Magog
      before. To us, it's almost like a visit from the Anointed.
      BEM: Just because I am the same species as the Anointed does not
      make me the same person.
      ARUN: But still, to share his heritage, to be able to see through
      the same kind of eyes as the being who founded Wayism. What a
      blessing that must be.
      BEM: A blessing? Yes, I suppose it is. Tell me, what do you know of
      the Anointed?
      ARUN: The Anointed was a Magog who came to Earth and met a holy
      man. The man became the host for the Anointed's progeny. While they
      hatched and grew strong, the man taught the Anointed about
      humanity's great teachers. Saint Buddha, Saint Jesus, Saint
      Lao-Tse, Saint Tealard. The Anointed listened, and the Way was
      revealed to him and his children.
      BEM: That is one interpretation.

      [Mission]

      (Hunt is teaching the Hajira how to use the forcelance as a
      quarterstaff.)
      HUNT: Retreat! Strike! Parry! Riposte! Retreat! Retreat! Parry!
      Riposte! Feint! Strike! Good work, Tiama. The rest of you, keep it
      up! This isn't a game.
      ARUN: Tiama. Mother thought when we were born that I would be the
      troublemaker.
      BEM: I am sure she told you this so it would not come to pass.
      ARUN: She didn't have to tell me anything. I remember her thinking
      it. We all remember what our parents knew.
      BEM: Are you saying you have some kind of genetic memory?
      ARUN: Of course. Everything our parents knew up until the moment of
      our birth, we know as well. I have my parents' memories, and their
      parents, and a dozen generations back. Didn't Brother Thaddeus tell
      you?
      BEM: No, he didn't.

      [Eureka Maru]

      (Hunt works out his strategy on a computer.)
      HUNT: We'll plant automated sensors here, here, and here, and rig
      them through a central relay here.
      BLAKE: Captain, you're teaching the Hajira to use forcelances.
      HUNT: To defend themselves, yes.
      BLAKE: And to kill the slavers?
      HUNT: Only if the Andromeda doesn't get here before the enemy.
      BLAKE: There has to be another option.
      HUNT: We can evacuate.
      TIAMA: If we leave, won't the slavers just attack another village
      instead?
      HUNT: Probably. And eventually they'll find you again. Which is why
      I prefer to make a stand.
      BLAKE: By teaching the Hajira how to kill? Please, I beg you, don't
      do this. It could destroy them.
      HUNT: How?
      BEM: He needs to know the truth. The Hajira have genetic memory.
      HUNT: They inherit memories from their parents?
      BEM: Arun, tell him what you told me about your great-grandfather's
      wedding day.
      ARUN: Oh, Prabo was so nervous that morning, he bit his fingernails
      until they bled. It had rained all night, and he was afraid the
      weather would keep the guests away.
      TIAMA: But, when the day dawned warm and clear, Prabo knew the
      Divine had blessed his union with Sasha. And that night proved he
      was correct. The moon was rising in their window when they
      HUNT: I, er, I get the picture.
      BLAKE: I was afraid that if the news got out, it would only make
      the Hajira more valuable, and bring more slavers. You see what's at
      stake?
      BEM: Yes. If we teach the Hajira to read, their children will be
      born literate. But if we teach them to kill, every Hajira forever
      will know what it's like to commit murder.
      HUNT: And that's worse than creating generations of slaves?
      BLAKE: I believe it is.
      HUNT: And I don't. But it's not my decision or yours. If the Hajira
      want to leave, I'll take them. If they want to fight, I'll teach
      them.
      TIAMA: I don't want to hurt anybody, but this is my home. And I'll
      fight for it.

      [Village]

      (Night. Bem is looking at the photograph from his altar.)
      HUNT: Friend of yours?
      BEM: I don't even know her name, but you could say she was my
      mother. She gave me life. Or perhaps it's more honest to say I took
      it from her.
      HUNT: But you've made it count for something. That's why we're
      here.
      BEM: My Magog parent committed a terrible crime against this woman.
      No matter how blameless a life I now lead, my soul will always be
      tainted by the circumstances of my birth. Being here, surrounded by
      such innocence, I realise how deep the stain runs through my heart.
      HUNT: You didn't ask to come into this universe the way you did.
      BEM: Nor did the Hajira. But they are born with an innocence and a
      gentleness I aspire towards. When they look at me, I do not see
      fear in their eyes. I see wonder.
      HUNT: Innocence is a beautiful thing, Rev, but it's also a luxury.
      One I'm not sure the Hajira can afford.
      (Boom! inside the compound.)

      [Mission]

      MAN: Who did this?
      HUNT: What have you done?
      BLAKE: I'm sorry, Captain Hunt. I can't allow you to put weapons
      into the hands of these children.
      BEM: Dylan, the forcelances. He's destroyed them all.
      HUNT: Congratulations. You just sold the Hajira into slavery.
      BLAKE: I saved their souls, their innocence.
      HUNT: Saved them from what? When the slavers come, they're going to
      grab every able-bodied man, woman, and child they can find, and
      kill anyone who gets in their way.
      BLAKE: Our faith will protect us.
      HUNT: Oh, really? Well, then why the hell did you call for help if
      you believed that your faith could protect you from a gauss rifle?
      BEM: Do not underestimate the power of faith. Every night before I
      sleep, and every morning when I wake, I pray. I pray for strength.
      Strength to rise above the instincts that compel me to kill all
      living things, to make them my food, or the hosts for my progeny.
      Faith, Dylan, is the only reason anyone here is still alive. My
      faith.

      [Corridor]

      BEKA: Tyr, how can you defend them? Your mercenaries are robbing us
      blind.
      TYR: They're simply attempting to make sure that this entire
      endeavour is worth their time. I didn't think you'd have a problem
      with that.
      BEKA: You've got the genetically engineered intellect. You tell me
      what Dylan will say when he finds out.
      TYR: If he found out, he would make a futile appeal to my
      conscience, after which he would eject the thieves into deep space
      through the missile tubes. Which would make him feel better, but it
      wouldn't solve his problem.
      BEKA: And what's his problem?
      TYR: Logistics. He needs these people, like them or not. You need
      them as well. However, your problem is different. Your problem, I
      can solve. I can arrange for you to receive a reasonable percentage
      if you'll look the other way.
      BEKA: Define reasonable.

      [Chapel]

      BLAKE: Captain Hunt and his band are building new weapons. Now he
      isn't just teaching them how to kill. He's teaching them how to
      think like killers.
      BEM: Dylan is only trying to give the Hajira a fighting chance.
      BLAKE: Life isn't a battle. It's a test of faith. I taught you
      that.
      BEM: For which I will be forever grateful. But we all approach the
      test in our own way. We reflect, Dylan acts.
      BLAKE: I will not allow my children to be corrupted by violence!
      BEM: But you used force to compel the Hajira to retain their
      innocence. You took away their option, their choice. Was that not
      violence?

      [Eureka Maru]

      TIAMA: Trenches are in place. Charges are set. We're as ready as
      we're ever going to be.
      HUNT: Are you okay?
      TIAMA: I'm worried.
      HUNT: Well, good. You should be. We're about to go into battle.
      TIAMA: No. No, no. It's not that. I have Arun and more cousins than
      I can count. No matter what happens, I'll live forever in their
      memories. I'm worried about you. You're all alone. No one shares
      your memories. What happens if you die?
      HUNT: I'm not planning on dying.
      TIAMA: But it's possible.
      HUNT: Anything's possible.
      TIAMA: You could live forever, you know, like us.
      HUNT: Tiama, I
      TIAMA: We could make children. They would remember for you. And
      when they grow up, they would protect us, like you do.
      HUNT: I tell you what. When you have children someday, you can
      teach them to protect themselves, and they can remember for us
      both.
      TIAMA: I will.
      HUNT: Good.
      (Alarm.)
      HUNT: The slavers.

      [Forest]

      (The villagers watch a light streak across the sky. They run onto
      to stockade with their collection of spears. Tiama and Hunt watch
      the slavers make their way through the trees.)
      URSARI: What do you mean, they dug a trench?
      SZABOS: Somebody's been playing soldier out here. Wire, pungi
      sticks, couple of land mines. And that's just what we can see.
      URSARI: Wayists and their books. The Talmud, the Bible, and the
      Lancer Counter-Insurgency Operations Manual all on the same shelf.
      Very eclectic.
      SZABOS: Boss, where you going?
      URSARI: To start a debate over how many Wayists can dance on the
      end of a pike.
      HUNT: It's not the Wayists you have to worry about. It's me.
      (Hunt is in full body armour, with a charged forcelance pointing at
      the slaver leader.)
      URSARI: Nice antique. What is that, a Mark Five or a Mark Six?
      HUNT: I can arrange a closer look.
      URSARI: We both know what's going to happen. A lot of people are
      going to die. Yours, mine. Now, mostly yours. And neither of us
      wants that to happen. So what do you say you give up thirty
      villagers, we call it a day.
      HUNT: I've already called it a day.
      URSARI: Fine. I'll go as low as fifteen. I'll even let you pick
      them. Throw in a couple of old ones if you want.
      HUNT: You want fifteen? I'll give you fifteen. Fifteen minutes to
      get off this planet and never come back.
      URSARI: We were so close. Are you sure?
      HUNT: Absolutely.
      (Blake and Bem arrive as thunder rumbles in the sky.)
      BEM: Please, do not do this.
      BLAKE: Lay down your weapons, all of you. No one has to die today.
      URSARI: A Magog.
      BEM: The arms of the Way are wide and embrace many.
      SZABOS: You know, boss, the hold's pretty full.
      URSARI: True. And the bonus that I'd pull down for fifteen of your
      mudfoots wouldn't cover the cost of my ammo.
      HUNT: So why ruin the day with a lot of unnecessary bleeding and
      screaming.
      URSARI: I guess some days you eat the bear, and some days the bear
      eats you.
      (The slavers leave.)

      [Corridor]

      TYR: So?
      BEKA: So, apparently my wish is Andromeda's command. I could make
      her sing I'm a little teapot, if I wanted to.
      TYR: Did you?
      BEKA: More to the point. I ordered her to blind her internal
      sensors to Cargo Bay eleven, and then forget all about it. Who knew
      A.I. command protocols could be so useful.
      TYR: Bay eleven. I'll tell our friends to move their souvenirs.
      BEKA: Great. You know we're going straight to hell for this.

      [Eureka Maru]

      BEM: You're still armed.
      HUNT: The slavers ship hasn't left. They're coming back.
      BEM: Whatever hope the Hajira have flows from you, not from the
      weapons that you wield.
      HUNT: Now you sound like Blake.
      BEM: You think he's na ve, but the Thaddeus Blake I know walked
      into a horde of Magog on Kingfisher and made them yield to the Way.
      HUNT: I understand what Blake means to you and what he's done for
      you, but you have to let me do my job.
      BEM: Fight if you must. Kill if you must. But only if you must.
      HUNT: If I'd deployed one Nova bomb, just one, I could have stopped
      the Long Night before it began. I didn't. I was standing at the
      edge of the abyss, and I blinked, and now people like Tiama and
      Arun pay the price for my hesitation. I won't make that mistake
      twice.
      BEM: You committed an act of mercy. You erred on the side of hope,
      and that is why you will win. There are no stronger weapons than
      mercy and hope.
      HUNT: Yeah, maybe so, but I would still prefer a platoon of
      Lancers.
      (Weapons fire.)
      HUNT: They're on the move. Get back to the village, now! Go!

      [Mission]

      (Spears are no match for gauss rifles. Bem goes to help a wounded
      man and his colleague.)
      BEM: Get everyone inside on the floor!
      ARUN: The slavers don't want to take us, they want to kill us!
      BEM: Go now!

      [Outside the village]

      (Hunt pulls Blake down out of sight.)
      HUNT: Go home.
      BLAKE: They said they would leave!
      HUNT: Would you stay down.
      BLAKE: Violence can't be the answer. Faith. Faith is our only hope.
      (Boom! They are knocked down.)
      HUNT: Blake, you all right?
      (Blake is running into the trees, towards the slavers.)
      HUNT: Blake! Blake, no!
      (Blake stands in the middle of the shooting.)
      BLAKE: By Divine grace I touch the shadow and reveal the light! In
      light there is truth! In truth, freedom from dark things! I am the
      darkness become light! I am the darkness become the truth!
      (Blake is shot down by a slaver. Hunt makes his way to him.)
      BLAKE: You, you are, you are the merciful hand.
      (Blake dies.)
      HUNT: I hope you find your peace.

      [Forest]

      (Hunt runs into the forest, firing.)
      URSARI: Fire Team Bravo, Fire Team Bravo. Drive Hunt toward me.
      Over.
      (Ursari ducks a well-aimed spear as Hunt and Bem take on the
      slavers.)
      URSARI: Hawkins, talk to me. Anyone on Fire Team Bravo, Report!
      (Hunt uses a slaver comm. unit.)
      HUNT: Fire Team Bravo asked me to tell you they have a better plan.
      They want to go home.
      SZABOS: Boss! We're in bad shape, boss! They got numbers and
      terrain, not to mention Hunt and his pet Magog.
      URSARI: Stupid! Useless! Sound the recall.
      SZABOS: Sure thing.
      (Tiama's spear goes straight through Szabos.)
      URSARI: Szabos! Kid! Kid, kid. Shush. Okay. Just relax. Just relax.
      Just breathe.
      (Ursari cradles Szabos as he dies.)
      URSARI [OC]: High Guard, are you listening to me?
      HUNT: I hear you.
      URSARI: Hear this. This isn't over, and not by a long shot. So you
      get ready. Your turn's coming.
      (Ursari spits and leaves. The Slaver ship flies off.)

      [Village]

      (Next morning, five robed bodies are laid out on a bier over a
      piles of straw. Arun is now the priest of the community.)
      ARUN: The slavers are gone. The fires have burned out. Now we
      gather to remember our dead. Lessick, you always wanted to see the
      ocean, but never could find the time to make the journey. We
      remember you. Jenna, you told Father that you wanted a son, even
      while you secretly hoped for a daughter. Mother, I remember you.
      Eunice, you dreamed of the stars while you watched your flock on
      the mountain. We remember you.
      BEM: I will speak for Blake. Brother Thaddeus was my teacher and my
      friend. He loved all the children of the Divine, even when we
      failed to love one another. Thaddeus Blake, I remember you.
      ARUN: They live in us.
      HAJIRA: In us they live.
      (Arun lights the straw.)

      [Chapel]

      BEM: Thaddeus, I'm sorry. I feel somehow I have failed you here.
      I've struggled so hard to find the path to peace, but I am not as
      pure as you. I never will be. All I can do is strive to follow your
      example and to make the wise choice.
      TIAMA: You speak with the dead.
      BEM: Perhaps. Perhaps I speak with my memories of who they were.
      TIAMA: Brother Thaddeus was a good man, but he wasn't perfect. It
      never occurred to him that maybe we were the only ones who had the
      right to decide our fates.
      BEM: What fate do you desire?
      TIAMA: To be free.
      BEM: The slavers will return.
      TIAMA: And we'll fight them. But we need your help. The slavers are
      afraid of you. They know you're an angel who protects us. They know
      you're Magog.
      BEM: I may have been able to scare away a few lightly armed
      slavers, but no Magog can defeat an army. I am afraid I am not your
      saviour.
      TIAMA: Then we'll die, and no one will ever speak with us again.
      (Tiama throws down her Wayist pendant and leaves.)

      [Command]

      ROMMIE: Multiple distress signals, both from the colony and from an
      orbital habitat.
      TYR: No one said anything about an orbital habitat.
      ROMMIE: Things are much worse than expected. Blowback from the
      comet strike has caused severe structural damage to the orbital.
      They're trying to evacuate, but they don't have enough ships.
      BEKA: How many Than are we talking about?
      ROMMIE: The orbital housed several hundred thousand Than. We can
      help, but it will take several days to ferry them all to safety.
      TYR: Dylan and the Magog will be on their own for longer than they
      expected.
      ROMMIE: If we leave, the Than in that orbital will die.
      BEKA: Are you telling me I should just abandon Dylan and Rev?
      ROMMIE: I'm not telling you to do anything. I'm giving the Captain
      options.
      BEKA: Shift course for the orbital, best speed. Dylan'll just have
      to take care of himself.

      [Forest]

      (Bem is sitting with his back to a large tree, swaying and
      chanting.)
      BEM: Give me the strength to follow the path. To give and not to
      count the cost. To struggle and not to heed to the wounds. I am the
      darkness become the light. I am the darkness become the truth. I am
      the darkness become the Way.
      (Someone injects Bem, and he passes out.)

      [Chapel]

      HUNT: Arun, have you seen Rev Bem?
      ARUN: Not since last night. Brother Thaddeus was training me to
      succeed him, but I never imagined I'd be called so soon.
      HUNT: Rev went into the forest last night to meditate. No one's
      seen him since. You know, Tiama's missing, too.
      ARUN: I don't know where they are, but I'll help you find them.
      Tiama's my sister. I'm responsible for her. For all of them.
      HUNT: That's why I need you to stay here. I'll find our lost sheep.
      You take care of the flock.

      [Cave]

      (Hunt goes inside to find a table with a hurricane lamp on it, and
      Rev Bem stripped down to his fur and chained to the wall. Tiama
      lies on a rock with a blanket over her.)
      BEM: Water. My pain belongs to the Divine. It is like the air
      HUNT: What in the hell's going on in here?
      (Hunt frees Bem.)
      BEM: Dylan, I am sorry. This is all my fault. Forgive this child.
      She knows not what she does.
      (Hunt goes over to Tiama.)
      BEM: No! Don't touch her. She's been infested.
      (Tiama's abdomen is writhing with life.)
      TIAMA: Not infested, blessed. He is our Anointed, and I have made
      myself our host. I am mother to an army, an army of angels to
      protect us.
      HUNT: When those things hatch, they'll eat right through her.
      BEM: And kill us all.
      TIAMA: You told me that when I had children of my own, I should
      teach them to fight. You said they could remember for us. Do you
      know what they'll remember most? That a man came from far away to
      fight and die for us, and that we loved him.
      BEM: She used Blake's surgical kit, extracted my genetic material,
      and implanted it in her body.
      TIAMA: I made myself a vessel to save Serendipity.
      HUNT: Tiama, you haven't saved anything. You'll be dead inside a
      week, and we'll be surrounded by Magog. By monsters.
      TIAMA: My children. They can only be monsters if I am a monster.
      You don't think I'm a monster, do you?
      HUNT: No, you're not a monster. Rev.
      (Hunt leads Bem away from Tiama.)
      HUNT: You know what I have to do here.
      BEM: Perhaps there is an alternative.
      HUNT: What?
      BEM: Each Magog contains a small amount of DNA from its host.
      Hajira transmit their memories to their children. Dylan, if that
      happens here, Tiama's offspring may be something we have never seen
      before. Magog born innocent.
      HUNT: You don't know that.
      BEM: What Tiama has done may be the best hope for the Hajira.
      Dylan, good can still come of this.
      HUNT: Have faith, is that what you're telling me?
      BEM: What I am asking is, stay thy hand and trust in the Divine.
      HUNT: You trust what you know. I'll do the same.
      (Hunt and the villagers unload more munitions from the Maru.)

      [Cave]

      (Arun and Bem tend to Tiama as she is eaten alive by her babies.)
      ARUN: Eternal life grant unto her.
      BEM: Walk in the light, child of the Divine.
      (Bem gives Tiama her pendant.)
      BEM: This is not for your eyes to see. Go now.
      (Arun leaves. Bem rips open Tiama's body and releases the infant
      Magog.)

      [Mission]

      (The Hajira bury a component from the Maru.)
      BEM [OC]: Dylan, it's done.
      HUNT: Understood. Rev, how long does it take Magog to grow to full
      size?
      BEM [OC]: That depends on food. Very fast if well fed.
      HUNT: Tiama said there were flocks of sheep in the hills. That
      should take care of the food. Find out if those Magog retain enough
      of Tiama's memories to be useful to us. Dylan out.
      (Time passes. The villagers prepare for the return of the slavers
      while Bem, robed again, nurtures the infants.)
      BEM [OC]: Give me the strength to follow the path. To give and not
      to count the cost. To struggle and not to heed the wounds.

      [Corridor]

      TYR: Four weeks. I've seen clan wars better organised than this
      operation.
      BEKA: Oh, Tyr. You're just grouchy because the Pythians think that
      you're their saviour rather than some stone cold killer. Which
      reminds me. You and I need to have a discussion about the contents
      of Cargo Bay eleven.

      [Mission]

      (A light streaks across the sky.)
      MAN: Look there! They're back.
      HUNT: It's time. Dimus, set the charge. All right, people, here
      they come. Let's bring it!
      MAN: Let's do it. Come on. Man the posts. This way.
      (The villagers scatter. Hunt runs into the forest as the slavers
      make their way to the village and the Mission compound.)
      URSARI: Nobody home.

      [Forest]

      (Hunt waits until all the little red dots are in the middle of his
      wrist scanner.)
      HUNT: Faith.

      [Mission]

      URSARI: Trap! Fall back!
      (Hunt sets off explosions.)

      [Forest]

      URSARI [OC]: Nice try, Hunt. You got some of my men, but I'm still
      here. Now about those fifteen heads you owe me. They won't be
      enough.
      HUNT: Rev, are they ready?

      [Cave]

      BEM: Physically, they've matured. As for their souls, only the
      Divine knows for certain.

      [Forest]

      HUNT: We're on our way. Hunt out!
      (The slavers chase Hunt.)
      URSARI: Second squad, this way.

      [Cave entrance]

      (Hunt ushers the villagers into the cave.)
      HUNT: Inside. Go! Go! Hurry up.
      URSARI: Cover the main entrance. My squad'll flush them out. Go!

      [Cave]

      URSARI: Hawkins, we're less than a hundred metres from your
      position. Hold tight and keep them penned in until we get there.
      (Hunt shoots a slaver and gets the drop on Ursari.)
      HUNT: Give. Move.
      (Two slavers turn as Ursari and Hunt enter.)
      HUNT: Ah, ah. That's far enough. Weapons down.
      URSARI: Tod bet me you'd try to take me hostage. I'd owe him fifty
      thrones if you hadn't killed him.
      HUNT: You brought this on your own men, not me.
      (A slaver shoots, Hunt returns fire and Ursari attacks him. Hunt is
      disarmed.)
      URSARI: Spare me the hero act. You're not fighting me for some
      noble cause here. Hell, there aren't any noble causes left to fight
      for. The truth is, you do it for the same reason I do it. It's the
      only thing you're good at.
      HUNT: Maybe so. But I'm damn good.
      (A Magog growls behind the slavers. Ursari turns and shoots it,
      then more Magog attack the slavers and drag them away. Hunt leaves
      them to it.)
      BEM [OC]: Dylan! Dylan, help! Come quickly! Dylan! Dylan! The
      Magog! Dylan!
      (Bem is protecting Arun from a Magog.)
      BEM: Dylan, they killed the slavers, but they're not stopping.
      They're infesting the Hajira!
      HUNT: No! No more killing.
      (The Magog speaks with a gentle female voice - Tiama's.)
      MAGOG: I don't want to kill anyone. I'm giving my family the gift I
      was given. Life. All that Tiama was, I am.
      ALL: In us, she lives.
      HUNT: Unfortunately for you, giving life is taking life.
      ARUN: But she's right. Just like you were right. We're like sheep,
      too weak to protect ourselves in a universe filled with predators.
      HUNT: Arun, are you insane? Turning your people into Magog is not
      the solution.
      BEM: Thaddeus Blake taught me the Way. Perhaps Arun can do the same
      thing here. Teach them to be protectors instead of killers.
      Besides, there's been too much death here today.
      HUNT: Which brings us back to faith, huh?
      BEM: That's all we ever needed.

      [Outside the cave]

      MAGOG: Brother. Father.
      (And gives Tiama's pendant to Bem.)
      MAGOG: Nature created darkness, but you chose the light. We will
      remember you. And you, Dylan. You stood with us while we learned to
      stand on our own. What you are now, we hope someday to be. Now you
      must go.
      BEM: Walk in the light.
      ARUN: Walk in the light.
      (Arun and the Magog go back inside the cave.)
      HUNT: Rev, do you really think we did the right thing here?
      BEM: I think in all things there is purpose. Even in horror.

      [Cargo Bay eleven]

      (It is empty.)
      BEKA: What can I say? Those Than looked awfully hungry.
      TYR: We forfeited our profit and earned the wrath of our own guards
      by double-crossing them for what?
      BEKA: The pleasure of knowing a whole batch of baby bugs are
      getting named Beka and Tyr?
      TYR: I can die happy.
      BEKA: Oh, Tyr? One thing. Those mercs said you cashed out your
      share in advance.
      TYR: Captain Valentine, you wound me.
      BEKA: Please. All I know is, the next time we go to Cavanaugh's,
      you're buying.
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: The Eureka Maru has come out of slipstream.
      BEKA: Guess they didn't need us after all.

      [Corridor]

      BEKA: Damn, it's good to see you. This Captain of the Andromeda gig
      you can have it. If it isn't Rommie giving you attitude, it's Tyr
      trying to pull a fast one. Are you okay?
      HUNT: Yeah, I'm fine.
      BEKA: Hey, do you want to talk about it?
      HUNT: Yeah, I'd like that very much.
      BEKA: Whenever you're ready.
      HUNT: Thanks. Beka, I read the Pythians' report on the relief
      mission. You did a good thing down there. I'm proud of you.

      [Rev Bem's quarters]

      (Tyr strides in without knocking.)
      TYR: I'm given to understand that your genetic material has become
      the foundation for an entire race of warrior priests? I'm
      intrigued. And, perhaps, a bit jealous.
      BEM: I can understand why a Nietzschean would say that.
      TYR: What would a Wayist say?
      BEM: We saved Paradise by introducing the serpent.

<Back to the episode listing

Andromeda and related marks are trademarks of Tribune Company. Copyright   2000
- 2005. The web pages on this site are for educational and entertainment
purposes only. All other copyrights property of their respective holders.

