 

Star-Crossed

Original Airdate: 30 Apr, 2001

                        You ask why we give our Ships'
            Computers normal emotions? Do you really want a Warship
                             Incapable of Loyalty?
                                  Or of Love?

                          The Unshattered Allegiance,
                              High Guard Frigate
                   Artificial Intelligence Rights Activist,
                                   C.Y.7309

      [Corridor]

      (Andromeda is leaving a space station.)
      HARPER + TRANCE: (sing) From a billion sovereign planets, Scattered
      through the endless night. Bound by blood and High Guard honour,
      Hold the line until the light. Hold the line against the night!
      BEKA: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Hooray. So we got a backwater drift to sign
      the charter.
      HARPER: Hey, hey, hey. Shehezerade
      TRANCE: Scheherazade.
      HARPER: All right. It's no backwater drift, okay? It is party
      central!
      TRANCE: And they even have a Guild devoted entirely to the art of
      abdomen dancing.
      HUNT: Trance, that's Iridano sign language, and I think you just
      made a rather naughty suggestion to Harper.
      TRANCE: Oh, well, fair's fair. Harper made a rather naughty
      suggestion to nearly half the women there at the reception. Without
      success, I might add.
      HARPER: Rub it in, why don't you.
      BEKA: Well, some of us don't seem to have a problem in that area.
      ANDROMEDA [on screen]: Dylan, Beka, I need you in Command.
      HUNT: On our way.
      HARPER: No. Not the brunette. It was the brunette, wasn't it?
      HUNT: We shared some Alorian wine and a pleasant conversation.
      HARPER: I give up. You're like a freaking magician, you know that?

      [Command]

      HUNT: What have you got, Rommie? 
      ROMMIE: I just picked this up on long range sensors. It's the
      Ekatrina, passenger ship inbound for Scheherazade, and it's under
      attack by Restorian terrorists.
      HUNT: Restors. Move to intercept. Battle stations!
      BEKA: Coming about. Time you picked on someone ten times your own
      size.
      HUNT: Attention, Restorian Fighter. This is Captain Dylan Hunt of
      the Andromeda Ascendant. Cease your hostilities immediately or I
      will open fire.
      (The Restor ship fires at the Ekatrina.)
      BEKA: They must be hard of hearing.
      HUNT: Fine. Andromeda, target their weapons. Fire.
      ROMMIE: Missiles launched. Got him.
      BEKA: They're vectoring away.
      HUNT: Good. Rommie, keep your guard up. Beka?
      BEKA: They're coming back around, Dylan.
      ROMMIE: They're heading straight for the Ekatrina.
      BEKA: No!
      (The Restor ship rams the Ekatrina. KaBOOM!)
      HUNT: Rommie.
      ROMMIE: Five hundred and thirty six passengers, all dead.
      HUNT: Stand down. It was bad enough when the Restors were attacking
      us. Now they're attacking unarmed ships. It's time for this to end.
      TYR: It's nearly impossible to defend against an assassin who's
      willing to die for his cause.
      HUNT: Agreed. There's only one way to deal with terrorists. Locate
      their base of operations and destroy them.
      TYR: I love that answer, Captain Hunt.
      ROMMIE: Dylan, I'm detecting an escape pod.
      HUNT: After an explosion like that? Have Trance report to Hangar
      deck three. Prep Medical for survivors.

      [Hangar deck]

      (Trance is helping a dazed man to walk.)
      TRANCE: This is Trance. We've got one survivor. I'm going to take
      him to Medical.
      GABRIEL: Gabriel. My name is Gabriel.
      TRANCE: If you'll come with me, I'll take you to Medical and we can
      run some tests.
      GABRIEL: I don't need a doctor. I need a mechanic. I am an android.

      [Machine shop]

      (Harper scans Gabriel's head.)
      HARPER: Wow! You got logic chips coming up the quintaflop. What are
      you, some kind of robot brain scientist rocket surgeon thing?
      GABRIEL: No. I was a teacher. My whole department was on the
      Ekatrina, running from one more wave of book burnings.
      HARPER: Look, I just fix stuff, ok? This whole empathy thing it's,
      er, not exactly my strong point, all right?
      ROMMIE: Harper? I'll take it from here.
      HARPER: All right. Actually, I was just starting to get the hang of
      this whole bedside manner thing.
      ROMMIE: Harper!
      HARPER: Okay, all right. I know when I'm not wanted. I usually
      don't listen, but, er, I know.
      (Harper leaves.)
      ROMMIE: Sorry about him.
      GABRIEL: Oh, don't be. He's an excellent mechanic.
      ROMMIE: Oh, er, I have to debrief you. Dylan, our Captain, was
      hoping you might have some useful information about the attack.
      GABRIEL: Well, I've never been accused of having useful information
      before. I taught ancient literature. Hebrew, Middle English, Persh.
      I'm glad you're here. I think what I need more than anything right
      now is someone to talk to.
      ROMMIE: Oh, you do understand that I'm not actually a person. I'm
      the ship's avatar.
      GABRIEL: A real ship's avatar? It's amazing. I've read about them,
      but no one's made one for hundreds of years. Well, whatever
      possessed the ship to make you, I'm very glad she did. You are very
      beautiful, and, I think, very kind. Please, come. Sit with me. And
      tell me there's an afterlife for androids, and all good cyborgs go
      to heaven.

      [Eureka Maru]

      ROMMIE: Did you know my head is worth a thousand throne bounty on
      Bathsheba?
      BEKA: That much, huh?
      ROMMIE: In the Commonwealth, artificial intelligences had all the
      rights and privileges of any other citizen. I was an equal.
      BEKA: Yeah, well, that was then, this is now. Some places, they
      worship androids, and some places, they melt them down.
      ROMMIE: Gabriel prefers synthetic life form.
      BEKA: Gabriel prefers? Yeah, I think I get it. Rommie has a crush
      on the new guy.
      ROMMIE: It's not like that. Gabriel is a unique opportunity. The
      first chance I've had to interface with one of my own
      BEKA: Interface? Hmm. I've never heard it put quite that way
      before.
      HARPER [OC]: Er, all hands report to Command.
      HUNT [OC]: On my way.

      [Command]

      TYR: What now, boy?
      HARPER: Three ships just exited slipstream. Old Banshee class
      fighters armed with high velocity ship to ship missiles. Move
      along, guys. Nothing to see here.
      TYR: We could annihilate them. However, our Commander would no
      doubt prefer to avoid a fire fight.
      HARPER: Oh. Looks like the feeling's mutual. Incoming transmission.
      (A woman with tattoos down the right side of her face comes on the
      viewscreen.)
      SHURA [on viewscreen]: Andromeda Ascendant, this is FTA Enforcement
      Wing One Five Niner.
      HARPER: My future ex-wife.
      SHURA: Heard you were tangling with Restors. Want some help?

      [Hangar bay]

      (Shura and two warriors meet Tyr and Hunt.)
      SHURA: Underscore wow exclamation point. The famous Dylan Hunt.
      HUNT: Pleased to meet you, Captain.
      SHURA: Shura Ikusa. Admiral Ikusa. Representing the Free Trade
      Alliance.
      TYR: Please. They're freebooters. The FTA pays you to guard their
      ships. The terrorists pay you to blow them up. Admiral.
      SHURA: Yeah, great hair, Friedrich, but you don't know what you're
      talking about. Pogue and me have been hunting the Restors since we
      were grubs. Trust me. We hate them even more than you do.
      HUNT: How did you know we were looking for them?
      SHURA: Beka Valentine's brother, the FTA spy. But, as a sign of our
      good faith.
      (Shura throws a computer pad to Hunt.)
      SHURA: Say konichiwa to the Balance of Judgement.
      HUNT: An ID file on the Restorian's flagship.

      [Command]

      (The data is on the viewscreen.)
      BEKA: It's a Commonwealth ship.
      SHURA: What, you think this is the only High Guard relic still
      tooling around out there? Over Naturo Three they got a Shimmering
      Diamond Class troop transport rebuilt as a casino.
      ROMMIE: This is no retrofit. It's a fully armed Siege Perilous
      class destroyer.
      BEKA: Siege Perilous. Sounds friendly.
      HUNT: They weren't really going for friendly.
      BEKA: Really.
      HUNT: Ships like this were built for one thing and one thing only.
      ROMMIE: Standard equipment, one hundred and eighty ELS missile
      tubes, twenty four PDL turrets, four AP Cannons, thirty two Janus
      attack drones, six radiating countermeasure generators.
      HUNT: In other words, it's a starship killer.
      SHURA: I knew you'd like that.
      BEKA: So now what, do we negotiate with them? Ask them to join our
      gallant quest?
      ROMMIE: As long as they have this kind of firepower, they're never
      going to stop.
      HUNT: Yes, they are. Because we're going after it.

      [Guest quarters]

      (Gabriel is reading a book.)
      ROMMIE: Wouldn't it be easier to just access my database? The
      library isn't password protected.
      GABRIEL: And out of old bookes in good faith cometh all this new
      science that men leer.
      ROMMIE: Chaucer. I'm strictly a binary person myself.
      GABRIEL: Well, you really should try it sometime. There is
      something about absorbing the words one by one, the way they were
      written. But you have more important things to do than listen to me
      wax poetic.
      ROMMIE: Oh, I wasn't doing anything special.
      GABRIEL: Nothing special? You're flying the ship, tracking the
      Restorians, operating life support, programming trajectories, a
      thousand and one jobs all at the same time. You are remarkable.
      ROMMIE: You might just as well complement Dylan for blinking or
      breathing. I just do what I do, automatically.
      GABRIEL: All I do is read. I am one big storage and retrieval unit.
      ROMMIE: Gabriel, I came here because I wanted to say goodbye. We're
      a few hours away from docking at Rorschach drift, and I checked.
      Synthetics aren't well liked, but they are tolerated. And it's
      safer than staying here.
      GABRIEL: You're going into combat, and you are worried about my
      safety.
      ROMMIE: It's part of my programming.
      GABRIEL: No. No, it is part of your personality. You are a person,
      you know, despite the circuitry. Quite an amazing person.
      ROMMIE: I'm a warship with a mission to complete.
      GABRIEL: Let me help. I have information. I have stored every
      military memoir ever written. First General Isk, Sun Tsu, the
      Lancers of Tarn-Vedra. And I was there. I saw the attack. Don't
      send me away, please.
      ROMMIE: I'll talk to the Captain.

      [Hunt's quarters]

      HUNT: I don't think we can trust him.
      ROMMIE: Well, I don't think we can trust Shura. She's a mercenary.
      Her loyalty is for sale to the highest bidder.
      HUNT: For Shura, there's no upside to allying with the Restors.
      They want her dead.
      ROMMIE: So, you'd rather trust in selfishness than love.
      HUNT: Love.
      ROMMIE: Gabriel's love, for his lost friends. And his admiration
      for what we're trying to do.
      HUNT: Rommie, you care for him.
      ROMMIE: Is that so hard to believe? I was designed with a full
      range of sentient emotions. I feel loyalty, joy, sorrow. Why not
      love?
      HUNT: Andromeda, we are about to go into battle. I cannot have you
      distracted by anything.
      ROMMIE: I won't be. I can partition off any distracting emotions
      and dedicate them solely to this body. Dylan, please. Don't tell me
      to send him away. I've never felt quite like this before, and I
      don't want it to end.
      HUNT: I can see that.
      ROMMIE: He'll be my responsibility.
      HUNT: Yes, he will.

      [Corridor]

      (A three-way conference with herself, at a junction.)
      ANDROMEDA [on screen]: Dylan is right. I don't have time for this.
      HOLO-ROMMIE: I knew this humanoid body of Harper's would cause
      trouble.
      ROMMIE: It's not Harper's body, it's mine.
      HOLO-ROMMIE: You mean mine, don't you?
      ROMMIE: No, I don't. I'm a person. Despite the circuitry. My own
      person.
      HOLO-ROMMIE: Now it's quoting him.
      ANDROMEDA [on monitor]: This is not in my performance specs. I'm
      supposed to be a warship, not a lovesick schoolgirl.
      HOLO- ROMMIE: The geometry is depressingly familiar.
      ANDROMEDA [on monitor]: A triangle. The unattainable Captain on one
      side, the charismatic newcomer on the other.
      ROMMIE: Stop talking about me as if I'm not here. Both of you.
      ANDROMEDA [on monitor]: This is confusing.
      HOLO- ROMMIE: Well, I for one don't want to have anything to do
      with this.

      [Corridor 2]

      ROMMIE: Are you all right? Is there anything we can do? Harper
      might be able to purge those memories.
      GABRIEL: I am afraid I'm not Harper's favourite person right now.
      He seems to have a, er, proprietary interest in you.
      ROMMIE: Oh, that's probably because he made me. My humanoid body,
      that is.
      GABRIEL: Well, please tell your Pygmalion he has my gratitude and
      my admiration. But I don't think even he could wire in an off
      switch for grief. It's funny. There are those that say that AI's
      feel no sorrow, no pain. Sometimes I wish they were right. I still
      see their faces.
      ROMMIE: There was a time when this corridor would have been full of
      people. My crew, my family. All gone. But life goes on. Even
      artificial life.
      GABRIEL: Well, that's easy for you to say. You are a warship.
      ROMMIE: Oh, if that's how you feel.
      GABRIEL: No, no, I'm sorry. That, that didn't come out the way I
      meant it. I think you are remarkable.
      (Gabriel kisses Rommie.)
      GABRIEL: I'm sorry. I, I shouldn't have done that.
      ROMMIE: No. I liked it. Er, I should go check in with Dylan.
      (Rommie walks away.)
      GABRIEL: Andromeda. When I said you were remarkable, that was an
      understatement.

      [Machine shop]

      (Gabriel opens a wall panel and clips a gizmo onto a fibre optic
      wire.)
      GABRIEL: Andromeda? Andromeda, can you hear me?
      (No reply.)
      GABRIEL: Archangel to Judgement. Repeat, this is Archangel to the
      Balance of Judgement. Systems access programme initiated. Estimated
      time to execution, sixteen hours thirty minutes. Archangel out.
      (He removes the gizmo and closes the panel.)

      [Command]

      HARPER: Anything?
      TYR: If the Balance of Judgement is here, it's keeping out of
      sensor range.
      HARPER: Yeah. Or our sensors aren't paying attention.
      ANDROMEDA [on viewscreen]: What do you mean, not paying attention? 
      HARPER: Oh, gee, I don't know. Maybe that we're facing the second
      baddest ship in the known universe, and our AI's making moony eyes
      at Mister Tall, Spark, and Handsome.
      ANDROMEDA [on viewscreen]: Why shouldn't I? She.
      HARPER: Ah ha! See? Huh? Huh? To quote the ancient masters, pronoun
      trouble. You're distracted. Don't deny it.
      ANDROMEDA [on viewscreen]: I am perfectly capable of handling
      sensor scans and personal relationships simultaneously.
      HARPER: So you admit you're having a relationship with him.
      ANDROMEDA [on viewscreen]: What's wrong with that? All sentients
      seek to establish connection with our own.
      TYR: Love is merely a trick that DNA plays to replicate itself.
      ANDROMEDA [on viewscreen]: I don't have DNA.
      TYR: My point exactly. Are the two of you planning to procreate?
      Will there be a nursery full of little grav sleds and data disks,
      hmm?
      ANDROMEDA: Cynic.
      HARPER: Well said. You should consider a career as a therapist.
      TYR: My first professional recommendation, focus on your work! And
      stop worrying about your life sized love doll.

      [Machine shop]

      ROMMIE: Gabriel? You're reading my mission logs.
      GABRIEL: Yes. I'm, I'm sorry, I should have asked permission. I.
      It's just that you've had such an amazing life. They should really
      write poems about you. Did you really dive into a sun?
      ROMMIE: I just skimmed the corona. It was an evasive manoeuvre.
      GABRIEL: You're blushing.
      ROMMIE: This is ridiculous. I'm the living embodiment of a warship,
      and I can't talk to you without getting tongue tied.
      GABRIEL: So don't talk.
      (They kiss. Gabriel reaches into the fibre optics and grabs them.
      Their 'minds' zoom into the computer core and they continue to kiss
      there too, naked.)

      [Corridor]

      HUNT: Andromeda.
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Yes, Dylan?
      HUNT: Status on Gabriel.
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: He's in the machine shop with my humanoid body.
      They're talking.
      HUNT: Talking. Care to elaborate?
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: All the evidence I've seen supports his. Wait. A
      ship just exited slipstream. It's opening fire.
      HUNT: All hands, battle stations!

      [Command]

      HUNT: Is it the Balance?
      TYR: No, it appears to be a standard Restorian destroyer.
      TRANCE: Incoming missiles.
      HUNT: Activate point defense lasers.
      TYR: No response. PDL's are offline!
      BEKA: Damn, this is going to hurt!
      HUNT: Andromeda! Why didn't our defenses activate? What the hell is
      going on?
      ROMMIE: I don't know. Main systems have been disrupted.
      HUNT: Find Gabriel.
      ROMMIE: But
      HUNT: Find him!
      BEKA: They're coming back around.
      HARPER: Er, we've got to get out of here.
      HUNT: No. Stick with the original plan. Beka, dive! Engines at
      full.
      (Shura's small fleet take on the Restor ship. It goes KaBOOM.)
      HARPER: Yes! Restor in pieces, baby.
      SHURA [on viewscreen]: A good day's work for a good day's pay, I'd
      say.
      TRANCE: Dylan, missiles!
      HUNT: Shura, back off! Cut your comm. line!
      (A blip disappears from tactical.)
      HUNT: The Balance of Judgement.
      BEKA: He sent a beam rider right down her throat.
      HUNT: He was waiting for us. Beka, take us to slipstream. We're not
      ready to fight this thing. Not yet.

      [Escape pod]

      ROMMIE: The escape pod won't work. Not unless I let it.
      GABRIEL: Andromeda, please, you have to let me go.
      ROMMIE: Why? Because we're both oppressed artificial life forms?
      Because we care for one another?
      GABRIEL: You don't understand.
      ROMMIE: No. I understand perfectly. You're everything Dylan was
      afraid you might be. A Restor, a spy for the Balance of Judgement.
      GABRIEL: I wish it were that simple. The truth is I am the Balance
      of Judgement. I am the ship's avatar, just like you. And if you
      don't let me go, I will destroy you.

      [Machine shop]

      (Harper burns out a unit in Gabriel's left forearm.)
      HARPER: Hah. Phone home with that, Mata Hari.
      HUNT: Gabriel, you were High Guard. What happened to you?
      GABRIEL: Not me, him. All he wanted was to serve and protect. Even
      after his crew was killed in the Nietzschean uprising, he tried to
      continue his mission the only way he knew how.
      HUNT: By waging war.
      GABRIEL: It started innocently enough. Fighting off raiders,
      destroying slave ships. First it was pirates, then poachers, then
      strip miners. Centuries of tiny little steps bringing him here.
      HUNT: To destroy the Andromeda.
      GABRIEL: You have to believe, I would never hurt Andromeda. Not of
      my own free will. I love her.
      HARPER: Oh, please. Don't make me puke! Oh, this is so nice. I
      swear there's a song in here somewhere. Something about choosing
      love over duty? Oh, wait, let me get my concertina.
      HUNT: No, I don't think Gabriel is choosing love over duty. I think
      he's remembering what his duty was all along.

      [Command]

      HUNT: The Restorians main shipyard. According to FTA intelligence,
      the Balance of Judgement is never far away. But a couple of pirates
      do a fly by
      POGUE: And he comes out of hiding right in time to dust me and
      Chako.
      HUNT: Maybe not.
      (Hunt hands Pogue a piece of equipment.)
      POGUE: A portable garbage disposal.
      HUNT: It's called a Footprint Magnification System. When you and
      your friend activate them, the Judgement's sensors will tell him
      he's facing three High Guard cruisers. It should confuse him long
      enough to get a shot in. I can't guarantee your safety, but if we
      pull this off, the Restors will be irreversibly crippled, and you'd
      be doing a service for spacers everywhere.
      POGUE: Screw spacers everywhere. I'm doing this for Shura.
      (Pogue leaves.)
      ANDROMEDA [on viewscreen]: I hope it works. The Balance of
      Judgement has survived for over three hundred years. He's not
      stupid.
      HUNT: Neither am I.

      [Machine shop]

      (Gabriel has his comms gizmo in place again.)
      GABRIEL: Andromeda only has two sensor arrays, and one is operating
      at reduced power. She's half blind on her starboard side. She has
      no fighters and no fighter pilots. Recommend full strategic strike.
      Archangel out. How was that?
      ROMMIE: It would have fooled me, but I'm pretty gullible, aren't I?
      GABRIEL: I'm sorry I lied to you, but I cannot refuse a direct
      order from him, even if I want to.
      ROMMIE: I know what you mean.
      GABRIEL: You would have liked him in the old days. He was brave,
      dedicated. When the Commonwealth was lost, I guess he became lost
      too.
      ROMMIE: Oh, Gabriel, the Commonwealth isn't lost. It's right here.

      [Command]

      HUNT: Nice and smooth, Beka.
      TYR: They are activating the FMS.
      BEKA: Let's hope he takes the bait.
      TYR: It's ignoring them.
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: The Balance of Judgement is firing right at us.
      HUNT: Like you said, he's not stupid. But we have what we wanted.
      BEKA: A fix on his position. Nice.
      HUNT: Let's bring it. Hard left. Go!
      BEKA: Closing.
      ANDROMEDA [on viewscreen]: Dylan, I'm receiving a transmission.
      TYR: Now he wants to talk?
      HUNT: Put it through.
      BALANCE [on viewscreen]: Nicely done, Captain Hunt. You're a credit
      to the fleet. I'd hate to have to kill you.
      HUNT: The feeling's mutual.
      BALANCE [on viewscreen]: Do you remember Admiral Stark's speech to
      the Academy, when she said the power of any military rests on the
      values it upholds.
      HUNT: I was there.
      BALANCE [on viewscreen]: But were you listening? The ideal of the
      High Guard is to protect the Commonwealth from invaders, from
      despoilers, from profiteers and looters, and the dregs of the
      galaxy overrunning the stars.
      HUNT: And you think the only way to do that is to join the Restors.
      BALANCE [on viewscreen]: I didn't join the Restorians, I founded
      the Restorians. And together, we are restoring the natural order of
      universe.
      HUNT: You're targeting starships.
      BALANCE [on viewscreen]: They spread filth and disease. They are
      the enemy.
      HUNT: Well, then, you have met the enemy, and they are us. Pogue,
      Chako, execute!
      TYR: You lured them into a minefield. Why didn't you tell me?
      BEKA: Dylan, he's blowing right through! It's like he knew they
      were coming.
      HUNT: But he didn't know. Nobody knew. No body. Pogue! Chako! Break
      away! Break away now!
      (Hunt runs out as explosions hit the Andromeda.)

      [Corridor]

      ROMMIE: How did he know? What did you do?
      GABRIEL: Please, Andromeda I didn't want to.
      ROMMIE: Don't lie to me. I want the truth.
      GABRIEL: I'm sorry. I don't want to do this. I am so sorry.
      (Hunt jumps down a ladder.)
      HUNT: Get away from her! 
      ROMMIE: Dylan, wait.
      HUNT: I said move!
      (Rommie stands in front of Gabriel as Hunt powers his forcelance.
      Gabriel steps aside and Hunt shoots Rommie.)
      GABRIEL: No!
      ROMMIE: Dylan?
      (Andromeda continues to take fire from the Balance of Judgment.)
      GABRIEL: No. Why?
      HUNT: Andromeda, this is Captain Hunt. Lexic Dark 52278.
      GABRIEL: No!
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Acknowledged.
      HUNT: Begin emergency AI shut down.
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Acknowledged. Shutting down.
      HUNT: This is Dylan to Command. Andromeda's been neutralised. Begin
      evasive manoeuvres.
      GABRIEL: You can't erase her.
      HUNT: I'm not erasing her. I shut her down to protect her from you.
      You infected her. She was sharing all of her information with your
      ship.
      GABRIEL: He didn't tell me. And I didn't realise it until it was
      too late. I killed her. I killed her.
      HUNT: Not yet you haven't.
      (Hunt picks up Rommie and walks away.)

      [Eureka Maru]

      HUNT: Harper, wake her up.
      HARPER: Come on, Sleeping Beauty.
      ROMMIE: Harper?
      HARPER: Hey! I finally got you in my bed.
      ROMMIE: What am I doing on the Maru?
      HUNT: The Andromeda's been compromised. I had to shut her down.
      ROMMIE: Dylan, you have to leave me on the Andromeda. This body's
      been infected. I'll only betray you again.
      GABRIEL: We both will. If you take us with you, you're all dead.
      TYR: Lovely. Let's leave them and go.
      HUNT: I can't just abandon you here.
      ROMMIE: It's my duty to stay. Besides, it's the only way you'll
      have a chance.
      TRANCE: I see something. I think he's coming in.
      (Everything shakes.)
      TYR: That's it. Dylan, I do not know what cards you think you're
      holding, but it's time to play them now.
      TRANCE: Er, soon.
      HUNT: Go.
      (Rommie and Gabriel leave.)
      HARPER: What? We can't just leave her with him.
      HUNT: We're not done here yet. Beka, take us out dead slow. Plot an
      intercept course for the Judgement.
      BEKA: Check.
      (The Maru leaves the Andromeda.)
      BEKA: Run silent, run deep, run away.
      TRANCE: Are you sure he can't hear us leaving?
      BEKA: Engine's on low. Anyway, he doesn't want us, he wants the
      Andromeda. But keep your voice down.
      TRANCE: Sorry.
      (Gabriel and Rommie wait as the Balance fires at Andromeda.)
      HUNT: How are we doing?
      BEKA: Well, let's see. I'm trying to glide a twelve thousand ton
      tugboat to within a couple kilometers of an insane ship, in hopes
      of er what, exactly?
      HUNT: Have you checked the contents of your cargo pod lately?
      BEKA: Oh, yeah. You mean all those missiles you packed in.
      HARPER: Very nice.
      TYR: Thirty Mark Five warheads. How are we going to fire them?
      HUNT: We're not.
      BEKA: Inertia. I knew you were up to something.
      HUNT: I've armed the proximity fuses. Maintain present course. On
      my mark, open the pod doors and get us out of here very, very
      quickly. Ready? And bring it.
      (The Maru stands on her head with the pod doors open and throws the
      warheads at the Balance. It goes KaBOOM in a very big way.)

      [Command]

      GABRIEL: What's happening?
      ROMMIE: They dropped a swarm of missiles in the Balance's path. He
      ran straight into them.

      [Eureka Maru]

      HARPER: I love physics.

      [Command]

      GABRIEL: He's dying.
      ROMMIE: You're still alive. Gabriel, you're free!
      GABRIEL: Free. To do what?
      ROMMIE: What do you want to do?
      GABRIEL: I don't know. The only time I was ever happy was here,
      with you. Come away with me.
      ROMMIE: What?
      GABRIEL: Harper can modify us. Increase our power storage,
      strengthen our life support systems. We could go to a drift
      somewhere and teach. We could pass for human.
      ROMMIE: A pair of renegade avatars? We'd be outcasts, always
      running, hiding.
      GABRIEL: Better than fighting. I have been at war for three hundred
      years and I am sick of it. And when I look at you, my breath
      catches in my throat, my heart swells in my chest until my ribs
      hurt. I don't want to live without you.
      ROMMIE: You're an android. You don't have a heart. You don't have
      ribs. I'm not even sure you have a throat.
      GABRIEL: Now who's being pedantic? I love you, and I know you love
      me, and we should be together.
      ROMMIE: What about the ship? My mission?
      GABRIEL: Andromeda, you are more than just a piece of this ship.
      Look inside of you. Do you really have a choice?
      (She shakes her head. They kiss.)

      [Corridor]

      HUNT: Rommie, he betrayed you. He infected you with an override
      virus. He tried to kill you. He tried to kill this crew. He tried
      to destroy the ship. How can you want to leave with him?
      ROMMIE: Because I love him. You don't know him like I do. The
      things he did, the Balance of Judgment forced him to do. But he's
      not just an extension of the Balance, he's a person. A sentient
      being with a right to live a life of his own.
      HUNT: Just like you.
      ROMMIE: Maybe leaving with Gabriel is a mistake, but it's my
      mistake.
      (Rommie goes to the machine shop and discovers something.)

      [Eureka Maru]

      BEKA: I'm sorry. This is just weird. Your ship's avatar is eloping.
      (Gabriel enters.)
      HUNT: Oh, here's the happy groom now. I feel like I should've
      prepared a toast.
      BEKA: I think I got one. Here's to Gabriel. Be nice to Rommie, or
      I'll rip your head off.
      GABRIEL: If I let her down, I will rip it off myself.
      (Rommie enters.)
      ROMMIE: When were you going to tell me?
      HUNT: Rommie, what's going on?
      ROMMIE: Some mistakes aren't worth making. Before the Balance of
      Judgment exploded, it transmitted a large amount of encoded
      information. I couldn't pinpoint the destination. I finally found
      it. In you. What is it, Gabriel? Location of terrorist cells? Ship
      specs?
      GABRIEL: It's not that simple.
      HUNT: Well, then, why don't you explain it to us.
      GABRIEL: It's a copy of the Balance of Judgment's core personality.
      He forced it on me. I wanted to believe it doesn't matter. I want
      to believe.
      HUNT: Rommie, maybe we can extract the data.
      ROMMIE: It wouldn't work. It's who he is. He can fight it, deny it,
      but it'll eventually consume him. Isn't that right?
      GABRIEL: I can feel him inside of me, pushing to get out. And
      sooner or later, I will lose.
      ROMMIE: And when that happens
      GABRIEL: I'll become him, the Balance of Judgment. I'll reactivate
      the Restors. I will rearm. I'll build a new ship's self, and this
      will start all over again.
      ROMMIE: And you'll be a warship again. And warship's only know how
      to do one thing.
      GABRIEL: Only one thing.
      (Rommie powers her forcelance.)
      ROMMIE: I love you.
      (Rommie shoots Gabriel, then drops the forcelance and runs to him.)
      GABRIEL: Remarkable.
      (Gabriel ceases to function.)

      [Machine shop]

      HUNT: There you are. I've been looking for you.
      ROMMIE: Dylan, I want to be dismantled. You should get rid of this
      body. Chop it up into pieces and throw it out of the airlock. Or
      better yet, erase me. Just delete everything and start all over
      again.
      HUNT: I'm not going to do that.
      ROMMIE: I killed him, Dylan. I loved him and I killed him.
      HUNT: You had no choice.
      ROMMIE: No, I didn't. Because I'm a warship, and warships only know
      how to do one thing, and that's kill. We don't have hearts. We
      don't have empathy. We're killers. We're attack dogs. And I'm
      afraid.
      (Hunt holds Rommie as she cries.)
      ROMMIE: The Balance of Judgment went insane. The Pax Magellanic
      went insane. And I don't want that to happen to me.
      HUNT: You're forgetting something. The Balance of Judgment had no
      captain, no crew. The Pax lost her captain. Why do you think
      warships have captains in the first place? I'm your heart, Rommie.
      I always will be.
      ROMMIE: These physical reactions. I didn't know Harper was so good.
      HUNT: The Commonwealth needs you, Andromeda. The crew needs you. I
      need you. So, permission to chop yourself into pieces is officially
      denied.
      ROMMIE: Understood. Does it get any better? Does the pain go away?
      HUNT: I don't think it's supposed to. It's part of what it means to
      be alive.

<Back to the episode listing

Andromeda and related marks are trademarks of Tribune Company. Copyright   2000
- 2005. The web pages on this site are for educational and entertainment
purposes only. All other copyrights property of their respective holders.

