 

It Makes A Lovely Light

Original Airdate: 7 May, 2001

                               Come bitter Rain,
                            And wash from my Heart
                          That saddest of all Words:
                                     Home.

                     Ulatempa Poetess, "Song of My Exile"
                                   C.Y. 9825

      [Corridor]

      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Warning. AP valve malfunction in the Reactor
      Chamber. Repeat. AP valve malfunction in the Reactor Chamber.
      (Hunt is racing along.)
      HUNT: Bleed off excess anti-protons! Initiate emergency venting!
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Initiating.
      (Hunt jumps down a ladder to the next corridor. Emergency bulkheads
      start to close.)
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Fifteen seconds to overload. Twelve seconds. Ten,
      nine, eight

      [Slipstream core]

      ANDROMEDA [OC]: seven, six.
      (Hunt rushes in and skids to a halt on the catwalk in the
      Slipstream core.)
      HUNT: Whoa!
      (On the adjoining platform is all the crew, minus Tyr, and a cake
      blazing with a plenitude of candles.)
      ALL: Surprise! Happy birthday, Dylan!
      (Hunt nearly has a heart attack.)
      HARPER: We got you! Oh, did we get him. Look at his face. Okay, you
      see that? That is why you don't tell him a week ahead of time.
      HUNT: Who put you up to this?
      ROMMIE: Harper overrode my emergency protocols. He said it was
      necessary for the gag.
      BEKA: What's the matter? Didn't they have surprise parties in the
      High Guard?
      HUNT: Somehow they found a less stressful setup than reactor
      meltdown.
      TRANCE: Blow out the candles now.
      HUNT: There's so many of them.
      BEM: We've included the three hundred and three years you spent
      frozen in time.
      HARPER: But don't worry. You don't look a day over two hundred.
      HUNT: Thank you. Sometimes I feel like it. I think I'm going to
      need some help here.
      TRANCE: Ready? One, two, three!
      (They help blow out the candles.)
      BEM: May your next year bring you wisdom and kindness.
      BEKA: Good job we deactivated the smoke detectors, eh, Dylan?

      [Observation Deck]

      BEKA: I hate them, too.
      HUNT: What's that?
      BEKA: Birthdays. Every year there's more of them behind and fewer
      ahead. Andromeda says you spent your last birthday on Tarn-Vedra.
      HUNT: It was at a ski resort in the Avarix Mountains with Sarah.
      Dinner cost a Nightsider's ransom.
      BEKA: I still can't believe I know someone who's been to the
      Homeworld. It's like having seen Atlantis.
      HUNT: Tarn-Vedra's no myth. I was born there. My mother was a
      high-G shuttle pilot, my father worked at the Imperial Gardens. And
      I, I grew up in the a human quarter of Vishana Tarn. The
      architecture, the museums. Every day it was like walking through
      ten thousand years of history. And now, well now it's. Now there's
      not a single slipstream route left connecting Tarn-Vedra to the
      rest of the universe. It might as well be locked up in a steel box.
      BEKA: Yeah. A steel box. A steel box with no key.
      HUNT: What's going on?
      BEKA: Happy birthday.
      (Beka gives Hunt a slim box, then takes it back to open it.)
      BEKA: I'll just show you how to do it. It's a little sticky. There
      you go.
      (Hunt activates the flexi.)
      HUNT: Slipstream routes.
      BEKA: A key. The map to Tarn-Vedra. Happy birthday, Dylan. You're
      going home.

      [Command]

      HUNT: It's a lovely gesture, Beka. But you can't get to Tarn-Vedra
      from here. From anywhere. No one's found a viable slip-route to the
      Vedran homeworld since the Commonwealth fell.
      BEKA: Oh ye of little faith. Do you remember when Harper and Trance
      stole the, er
      HARPER: Acquired.
      BEKA: Acquired the diary of Hasturi, the mad Perseid?
      HUNT: Ah, yes. The only sentient to reach Tarn-Vedra since the
      fall. Or so he claimed.
      HARPER: Hey, believe it or not, I actually read that thing. The
      crap I went through to get that, and it's total gibberish. Steer by
      the glow of the Cyclops eye? It's half mystical mumbo-jumbo, half
      putrid poetry, and half bad math.
      ROMMIE: That's three halves.
      HARPER: Like I said, bad math.
      BEKA: To you, maybe. But you're not a pilot. Prune away all this
      bad poetry, and you get this. The road to Tarn-Vedra. Chapter one,
      verse one. I set a course for the Swan palace of lapis and gold.
      ROMMIE: The Capella system.
      HUNT: A binary star. One blue, one yellow.
      BEKA: Lapis and gold. It's all here. From Capella to Algareb to
      Seginus. All the way to Tarn-Vedra in forty six easy steps.
      HUNT: Slow down, Moses. Hardly easy. This trail bisects a stellar
      nursery, and it passes within twenty AU of a collapsing quasar.
      ROMMIE: Not to mention negotiating around the twin cores of the
      Andromeda galaxy.
      BEKA: Hasturi knew that all the normal routes had been destroyed,
      so he explored all the abnormal ones.
      HUNT: Well, he certainly picked some beauties.
      BEKA: Think of the shipyards. Imagine all the new parts just
      waiting for Andromeda. And what would contacting the Vedran
      homeworld do for a reunited Commonwealth? This could light a fire
      under our whole crusade.
      HUNT: It's dangerous, Beka.
      BEKA: Yeah. Maybe it is dangerous, but someone once told me that
      nothing worth doing is easy.

      [Eureka Maru]

      BEKA: Hello, Tyr. What do you want?
      TYR: Command codes for the Eureka Maru.
      BEKA: As in my ship? Oh, did you wake up insane, or was it a slow
      onset?
      TYR: I've given it some considerable thought, and I've decided that
      this quest of yours is wrong-headed and most likely to prove fatal.
      So if it's all the same to you, I'd prefer to wait it out on this
      vessel and, if you survive, you can pick me up and tell me all
      about Tarn-Vedra.
      BEKA: And here I thought you cared.
      TYR: I care enough not to want to watch you and Dylan and the rest
      kill yourselves on some fools crusade.
      BEKA: Tyr, do I strike you as some sort of starry-eyed dreamer?
      TYR: No. In fact, most of the time, you're admirably
      self-interested.
      BEKA: Well. This is most of the time. Wake up, Tyr. You think I'm
      going to Tarn-Vedra for the art galleries? That planet was not only
      the seat of government, it was also the home base for the
      Commonwealth's military, including its arms depots.
      TYR: Lovely. So, this situation presents some interesting
      possibilities. Now, you wake up. No one's reached Tarn-Vedra in
      three hundred years, and better pilots than you have died trying.
      BEKA: There are no better pilots than me.
      TYR: Arms depots, eh?
      BEKA: I knew that'd get your attention.

      [Machine shop]

      HARPER: Andromeda, do we have any nanobots that can eat metal?
      Really big chunks of metal. Like, er, I don't know, say,
      underground vaults, maybe?
      BEM: Have you considered the possibility that the Vedrans might not
      want you to loot their home?
      HARPER: And have you considered the possibility that they may not
      even be there anymore? For all we know, the place could be
      abandoned, ripe for the picking's. And besides, it's not looting,
      it's, er, gleaning.
      BEM: There's a very fine line between gleaning and pillaging. I
      believe one draws that line with a laser saw. I fear there is one
      possibility everyone is overlooking in this mad dash for wealth and
      glory. The Vedrans are a very powerful and ancient race. They
      conquered known space, and they tamed it. What if Tarn-Vedra was
      not cut off from the slipstream at all? What if they cut themselves
      off? And what if they don't want to be found?
      (Harper shudders.)

      [Eureka Maru]

      HUNT: Beka. Beka, are you in here?
      (Beka enters with wet hair and wearing a towel.)
      HUNT: Whoa! Oh, sorry, I didn't realise you were er
      BEKA: No. No, it's fine. I was done. Have you made a decision,
      Dylan?
      HUNT: Er, oh yes. Right. Right. Look, look, er, do you really think
      that you can do this?
      BEKA: I wouldn't have volunteered if I didn't think I could pull it
      off.
      HUNT: Yeah, well, see you know, I was, er, I was checking your
      figure. I mean the, your figures, and er, seventy percent of our
      transit time would be in the slipstream itself, and that's
      psychologically exhausting under ideal conditions. And these routes
      that you're talking about? It's going to be hard on the pilot. I
      mean, on any pilot. I mean, look what it did to Hasturi.
      BEKA: Yeah, but Hasturi was a Perseid. They're all twitchy
      obsessive compulsives to begin with. He was probably crazy before
      he started. Look, Dylan, I can do this. I know I can.
      HUNT: Nothing worth doing. Okay. Let's give it a shot. Report to
      Command.
      BEKA: Okay.
      HUNT: Oh, er, take your time. I mean, as you were. No. No problem.

      [Corridor]

      (Harper meets Beka coming the other way.)
      HARPER: Hey, you think it's on Tarn-Vedra, don't you? The Engine of
      BEKA: Seamus, ix-nay.
      (They walk past each other.)
      HARPER: Right. Right. But it's there, isn't it?
      BEKA: Maybe. We'll see.

      [Command]

      BEM: The Face of the Divine.
      HUNT: Come again?
      BEM: The Andromeda Galaxy. If the universe is a manifestation of
      the Divine, could not the slipstream be the very mind of God?
      HUNT: Well, if that's the case, I'm afraid God had a seizure and
      forgot all about Tarn-Vedra.
      (Beka enters.)
      BEKA: And here comes God's little brain surgeon.
      BEM: Beka! Some humility, please.
      BEKA: Yeah, I tried that once. I didn't like it.
      HUNT: Like they say. In the slipstream, confidence is everything.
      BEM: Apparently.
      HUNT: All right, Beka, let's do this.
      ROMMIE: Transiting to slipstream in three, two, one.
      (Beka pilots them through to the blue and yellow binary system.)
      BEKA: Welcome to Capella. Hello, Capella. Goodbye, Capella.
      (And into slipstream again.)
      BEKA: Hello and goodbye, Algareb.
      (And the third jump leads straight into the fourth, and so on.)
      HUNT: On screen. Full magnification.
      ROMMIE: That's the Seginus System.
      BEKA: Or as Hasturi put it, the Sockets of Twelve Axe Handles. Ten
      down, thirty six to go.
      HUNT: Hmm.

      [Corridor]

      TYR: She is a remarkable pilot.
      HARPER: And you're surprised? Hey, I'm choosy about who I work for,
      you know.
      TYR: So am I.

      [Command]

      HUNT: Ten jumps, no waiting. Good work, Beka.
      BEKA: It was a snap.
      HUNT: Well, for you, maybe, but Rev looks like hell. Well, worse
      than he normally does, and even I'm feeling the strain. I think
      we'll just rest here in normal space for a while.
      BEKA: What? And break our momentum? No, I'm fine.
      HUNT: Beka.
      BEKA: Look, I. Look.
      HUNT: Beka, Tarn-Vedra's been lost for three hundred years. We do
      not have to find it this morning. Go.
      BEKA: Going.
      (Once finally out of sight in the corridor, Beka leans against a
      ladder to catch her breath.)

      [Command]

      (Andromeda comes out of slipstream.)
      BEM: So, where are we now?
      ROMMIE: That's Epsilon Bel. It's an X ray pulsar.
      BEKA: See how she blinks on and off? Hasturi called that the Eye of
      the Blinded Cyclops.
      ROMMIE: Hasturi makes a lot of references to the ancient Earth
      epic, the Odyssey.
      BEKA: Except when he confuses his Vedrans with his centaurs, then
      he just veers right off of Homer and starts quoting Einstrom
      Becksman.
      BEM: The Hawks of Scaroth. Majestic.
      ROMMIE: If you like beheadings.
      BEM: I'm beginning to think this may actually work.
      BEKA: Oh, I see. So you doubted me up till now?
      BEM: Beka, you wound me. I? Doubt you? Never.
      BEKA: Wise guy.
      (Beka takes them into slipstream again. This time the ship starts
      bouncing off the energy lines.)
      BEKA: Yes! Whoo!
      (Trance is hanging on for dear life. They come out of slipstream
      with alarms blaring.)
      HUNT: Okay, whatever that was, I know it wasn't good. Beka?
      BEKA: It's okay. It's all under control.
      (Beka turns the ship and consoles go bang.)
      BEM: Polymer web.
      HUNT: We certainly are. Andromeda, determine our exact location.
      BEKA: I know our location. We're in between Scylla and Charybdis.
      ROMMIE: Halfway between Andromeda galaxy's two cores.
      BEM: And the twin black holes at their centres.
      HUNT: Tell you what. Let's skip the formalities and move on to our
      next destination, okay?
      BEKA: Aye, aye.
      (Jolt.)
      BEKA: Sorry.
      (And another.)
      BEKA: Damn it.
      HUNT: And that would mean there's a problem.
      BEKA: I can't find the way into slipstream. It's like the entire
      area is a gravitational riptide. I think we're stuck.
      (Later, with the black holes on the viewscreen.)
      HUNT: Okay, Harper, dazzle me.
      HARPER: We are here. On your left will be a black hole we'll call,
      say, er, rock. And on your right, one we'll call hard place. Now,
      for those of you who are feeling a little torn, the mass of your
      average galactic core super-black hole is equal to about a hundred
      million suns. And we are trapped jam smack dab right between two of
      'em. So, you can forget about finding a slipstream portal. One
      wrong move, and we are talking entire planets being ripped to
      molecular shreds.
      BEKA: I can get us out. If I can just find the sweet spot between
      the two gravitational cores, they'll neutralise each other.
      HUNT: If being the operative word.
      ROMMIE: Theoretically, Dylan, she is correct.
      HUNT: And if we're off course by even a few kilometres, we're
      history.
      BEKA: We both knew the risks when we started out. I can do this.
      (Rumble, creak.)
      HUNT: I'm not doubting you, Beka. I'm just looking to maximise the
      odds. Harper, I want you to optimise the control interface and see
      if you can eke a better performance out of the slipstream drive.
      Rommie, work out worse case scenarios. And you? Take a break.
      You're exhausted and I need you sharp.
      BEKA: I'm fine.
      HUNT: It's not a debate.

      [Slipstream core]

      HARPER: Harper, we're only about an hour away from destruction. Why
      don't you take this paperclip and go an upgrade the engines. No
      pressure. No pressure? Oh, good, because I don't need pressure. I
      need power.
      HOLO-ROMMIE: Harper? How am I coming along?
      HARPER: Rommie, if I had a hundred tech-heads, a fully operational
      drydock and six months, I could maybe goose you five percent
      efficiency at best. As it is
      HOLO-ROMMIE: I'm helpless.
      HARPER: No, you are the holographic light of my life. Me versus the
      slipstream drive, that's hopeless.
      HOLO-ROMMIE: Harper, I don't wish to offend, but
      HARPER: You're a warship, and you know how I feel about social
      graces, so go ahead, spit it out.
      HOLO-ROMMIE: Is it time to consider another pilot? Beka is good,
      but no one can spend that long riding the stream. The sheer
      exertion of willpower, the life and death choices, it takes a toll.
      HARPER: Rommie, I know how you feel. Believe me, I know. But let me
      give you a little historical perspective on this, okay? Two ninety
      nine AFC, Takeloff Drift. Vertically challenged yet irresistible
      engineer Seamus Zelazny Harper is running an oh so clever con when
      he somehow runs afoul of the law. His partner, Captain Beka
      Valentine, not only puts her ship up for his bail, but steals it
      back and lifts off with five Banshees screaming up the Maru's
      backside. 301AFC, Nuev Odessa. Lovable scamp Seamus Harper is
      filching military surplus when he somehow runs afoul of the law.
      Beka manages to pilot us to safety. Oh, later that same year, Bleak
      Horizon
      HOLO-ROMMIE: I see the pattern.
      HARPER: The point is, Beka slip-pilots like other people breath. If
      you want to switch drivers and slipstream us right into a flaming
      cloud of hydrogen gas, fine.
      (Beka overhears this.)
      HARPER: But, even when the party's gotten a little hot, I'd still
      rather dance with the one that brung me. 

      [Eureka Maru]

      (Beka is taking a mug of hot water from the microwave when she
      hears a plaintive little voice.)
      TRANCE [OC]: Beka?
      BEKA: Trance? Trance, I didn't know you were in here.
      (Trance sits up.)
      TRANCE: Yeah. Yeah. It's just all that time in slipstream really
      gives me a headache.
      BEKA: Wouldn't you be more comfortable in Andromeda's crew
      quarters?
      TRANCE: I guess so. It's just, you know, my favourite plants are
      here, and it kind of feels like my bed. Is that silly?
      BEKA: Nope. I know exactly what you mean.
      TRANCE: You know, you look kind of tired. Maybe you should take a
      nap, too.
      (Beka puts a teabag into her hot water.)
      BEKA: Instant nap. Just add water.
      TRANCE: Oh. Are you sure? Because
      BEKA: Trance, stop. I know what I'm doing. Everything's going to be
      fine. Okay?
      TRANCE: I don't. I don't. I'm not feeling
      (Trance collapses.)
      BEKA: Trance?

      [Medical]

      BEM: I can't explain it. Perhaps it's our proximity to the galactic
      core. Radiation, gravitational flux, the tidal forces of those twin
      singularities.
      BEKA: Rev, spill it.
      BEM: Trance's physiology is as alien as anything I have ever seen.
      Whatever energy flow she has is fading, rapidly. Beka, I'm afraid
      we're losing her.
      BEKA: Let me sit with her for a minute. You go pray for a speedy
      recovery or whatever it is you do.
      BEM: Divine compassion is stronger medicine than you know. I will
      go pray for her.
      (Bem leaves as the ship creaks and monitors flash on and off.)
      BEKA: Andromeda, give us a minute, please.
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Privacy mode engaged.
      (Beka starts hunting through drawers of bottles.)
      TRANCE: What are you doing?
      BEKA: Trance, you're up.
      TRANCE: What are you doing with the medicine? Acetylcholine.
      Neurostimulant. You're making Flash?
      BEKA: I know what I'm doing. Trance, I have to get us out of here.
      TRANCE: But Flash
      BEKA: Will boost my reaction time and help me anticipate changes in
      the stream. It's what it was made for.
      TRANCE: But you can't do that. It's so bad for you.
      BEKA: No. No, I'll be fine. Everything's going to be okay. I'll
      take care of everything, Trance. I promise. Let's get you back to
      bed.
      (On the Maru, Beka looks at a photograph of her as a child with her
      father and brother, then puts a drop of the milky liquid into each
      eye. Her irises turn white and her pupils are pinpoint.)

      [Command]

      HUNT: Status?
      ANDROMEDA [on viewscreen]: The tidal forces of the galactic core
      are still too strong. We need to go a little further before we can
      enter slipstream.
      HUNT: Steady as she goes. Maximum PSL.
      (Beka enters.)
      BEKA: Hey, Dylan.
      HUNT: Hi, Beka. How's Trance?
      BEKA: Not great. But I'm better. All I needed was a catnap.
      (She gets into the slipstream chair.)
      HUNT: I'm impressed.
      BEKA: Well, don't be. I'm the one that got us in this predicament
      in the first place. The least I can do is get us out.
      HUNT: Just make sure that we're clear of the core before you
      stream.
      BEKA: You're telling me to tiptoe back out of here. I can do that.
      I will do that.
      HUNT: Don't break my ship.
      ANDROMEDA [on viewscreen]: We're clear.
      BEKA: We're clear.
      HUNT: Stream away.
      BEKA: Stream away.

      [Medical]

      (Trance arches her back and cries out.)
      BEM: Trance! Trance!
      (They come out of slipstream. Trance is shaking.)
      BEM: Trance! Oh, you're awake. Thank the Divine.

      [Command]

      HUNT: Good work, Beka. You have my thanks. That was very
      impressive.
      BEKA: It was nothing.
      HUNT: No, I mean it. Suddenly you could do no wrong. We didn't even
      upgrade the equipment or recalibrate the controls.
      BEKA: Oh, I see. So you get pilot error, but you have no room for
      pilot excellence. Can't you just accept the fact that I'm good?
      Maybe just as good as Captain Terrific himself?
      HUNT: Excuse me?
      BEKA: Sorry. Sorry. I'm stressed.
      HUNT: Tell you what. Why don't we just stay here in normal space
      for a while and let Andromeda give you a spell. Okay?
      BEKA: Yeah. Yeah.
      (Beka gets out of the chair. Hunt picks up Hasturi's diary.)
      HUNT: A break would do me good. Gives me a chance to maybe read the
      little mystery
      (Beka snatches the diary back.)
      BEKA: Hey! My guys bled for that. My score.

      [Corridor]

      HUNT: Hey, Beka. Mind telling me what that was all about?
      BEKA: Sorry. I am sorry. I, er, you're right. I, I, I've been
      pushing myself too hard. I really need a break.
      HUNT: Damn right you do. You've been slip-piloting for sixteen
      hours nonstop. No one can keep up that pace.
      BEKA: Yeah. I can. I can do it. Dylan, I, I was born in the
      slipstream. I can do this. It's just, er, it's exactly what you
      said. I, er, I need a break. I need a break and it'll be, it'll be
      fine. You'll see. You'll see.
      (Beka walks away, twitching and hyper. Around the corner, she puts
      more Flash in her eyes.)

      [Eureka Maru]

      HARPER: Boss? I just wanted to come by and tell you I have the
      utmost confidence in your ability to smoke.
      (He sees Beka's eyes.)
      HARPER: What in the name of the Vedran Empress?
      BEKA: Walk away. You were never here.
      HARPER: You're doing Flash. I don't believe it. Flash? Beka, come
      on. You know what that stuff does to people. People kill over that
      stuff, their family and friends. Did you know that eighty two
      percent of people on prison planets are Flash addicts?
      BEKA: Do you know what? They tell you that kind of stuff just to
      scare you.
      HARPER: Sure. To scare you out of killing your neighbours.
      BEKA: Look, I'm not going to pretend this crap is good for me. I
      know first hand what Flash can. I'm using miniscule doses for a
      limited time. It's medicine, and it's working. You saw. You heard
      what Dylan said.
      HARPER: If it's such good medicine, why don't you tell Dylan?
      BEKA: Because Dylan is Dylan. Dylan wouldn't cheat on his FTA dues.
      Besides, it's none of his business what I put in my bloodstream.
      HARPER: Fine. It's your brain, but I don't like to see you like
      this, Rebecca. I'm just trying to help.
      BEKA: Then leave. Then just leave. Leave! And let me do my job. You
      know, Harper, I've saved your skin before, and I'll save it again.
      But you have got to get off my back or so help me, I will drop you
      back on the trash heap where I found you!
      HARPER: Okay.

      [Command]

      HUNT: Beka. Did you have a good rest.
      BEKA: I've had an epiphany. Rommie, diagram our last nine transits.
      ROMMIE: Processing.
      (The nine circles make a 7, or an arrow head.)
      BEKA: Hasturi called that the Belt of Orion.
      HARPER: Er, Orion is in the Milky Way.
      TYR: We're two million light years from there.
      BEKA: Yes, but Hasturi was a lunatic. The point. The point is,
      we're back on track. I can still get us to Tarn-Vedra.
      (She adds five more circles.)
      ROMMIE: Beka, that route takes us within five light minutes of a
      charged plasma nebula.
      BEKA: The Black Goat with a Thousand Young. Yeah, yeah. And I'll
      have us out of there in one hot second.
      HUNT: Not good enough. Rommie, plot a course back to the galactic
      fringe.
      BEKA: Huh? Um, did you hear me? I just finished saying we don't
      have to turn around. I can do it. I can get us there in twelve
      transits. Ten!
      HARPER: Er, boss? I, er, I.
      (Beka gives him Look.)
      HARPER: I abstain.
      HUNT: Beka, I appreciate your dedication, and I have confidence in
      your abilities, but I don't buy your math. You can't finesse a risk
      benefit ratio.
      TYR: I agree. The dangers significantly outweigh the potential
      rewards.
      BEKA: Okay, I expect this kind of thing from Mister Self
      Preservation here. But you? Dylan, I thought you had guts.
      HUNT: You're under a lot of strain, which is why I've cut you a lot
      of slack, but I think it's time you left the bridge and went back
      to your quarters, now.
      BEKA: Is that an order, Captain, My Captain? Oh, I forgot.
      Actually, you're not a real Captain, are you? There's no High
      Guard! There's no commissioned officers. Who around here is an
      actual captain? Don't tell me, let me guess. Just, er, it's coming
      to me, it's coming to me. Let's see. Hmm, that would be, er, me!
      HUNT: That's enough! This is my ship, and when you're on my ship,
      you will comport yourself like the captain you claim to be.
      TYR: Reasoning with her will do little good. She's under the
      influence of mind-altering drugs.
      HUNT: What?
      BEKA: What? Says who,  ber?
      TYR: Captain Valentine, I can hear your heartbeat racing. I can see
      the sheen of perspiration and smell the adrenaline fueling it. Tell
      me, did you think that Nietzschean vision would be unable to
      distinguish between a human cornea and a contact lens?
      HUNT: Beka, Flash? What are you? Are you insane?
      BEKA: What? It's not what you. Everybody needs it. Besides, I
      thought you made your own rules, Mister Beyond Good and Evil.
      TYR: This hasn't a thing to do with good or evil. Drugs create
      dependency. Dependency is weakness, and weakness is death.
      HUNT: Tyr, you could've told me earlier.
      TYR: It was working.
      HUNT: Mister Harper, I'm sure you were well aware.
      HARPER: She's Flash fried and freeze dried.
      BEKA: You're going to pay for this, Harper.
      HUNT: Beka, you are relieved of duty.
      BEKA: What?
      HUNT: Now, give it to me.
      BEKA: Who's going to fly you out of this mess if not me? I'm your
      best pilot.
      HUNT: You should be thankful that I can't court-martial you. Now,
      give me the bottle.
      BEKA: Fine. Catch.
      (She throws a bottle past Hunt.)
      BEKA: Sorry.
      (Hunt goes to get it and Beka leaps into the slipstream chair.)
      BEKA: Brace for slipstream!
      (They go into slipstream.)
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Medical alert. Patient condition critical.
      (They come out of slipstream. Tyr and Hunt drag Beka out of the
      chair. She punches Tyr.)
      HUNT: Tyr, escort Captain Valentine to V deck.
      BEKA: Let go.

      [V deck]

      (Pacing her cell, very hyper.)
      BEKA: That's the last time I go to the mat for you guys. Dependency
      is weakness, weakness is death. You know what, Tyr? You know what?
      I got two words for you. Er, anabolic. Er, steroids! Oh, yeah, I
      forgot. You're Mister Pure and Natural, aren't you? Yeah. You're
      too good for human women, that's for sure.
      HOLO-ROMMIE: Beka, is there anything you need?
      BEKA: Yeah. A door key.
      HOLO-ROMMIE: I was thinking more along the lines of a light supper.
      BEKA: Food? No. No. Maybe water? Or maybe a lemonade? Yeah. Yeah,
      yeah. A lemonade'd be great.
      HOLO-ROMMIE: I'll see what I can do.
      BEKA: Okay. I'll be right here.
      (Beka doubles over, in withdrawal)

      [Command]

      HUNT: Okay, Andromeda. Give me what you can.
      (The ship judders and shakes as Hunt tries to fly her.)
      HUNT: Come on.
      (He gives up.)
      HUNT: Yeah, I know.

      [Medical]

      BEM: Trance? Welcome back. At least one of my patients is
      improving.
      TRANCE: Who else is sick?
      BEM: Beka. She
      TRANCE: Took Flash. I saw her stealing the ingredients. I tried to
      stop her.
      BEM: You must not blame yourself for Beka's actions.
      TRANCE: Then neither can you.
      BEM: Well, I, I never said I was.
      TRANCE: No, you didn't. But you thought it. I know you, Rev. You
      always try to say the right thing so people will see things the
      right way, and then they'll always end up making the right choices.
      BEM: Yes, I suppose I do.
      TRANCE: Sometimes, you just have to allow people to make the
      mistakes they need to make.
      BEM: Thank you.

      [V deck]

      BEKA: My hair hurts.
      BEM: You are withdrawing from a very powerful drug. It's bound to
      be uncomfortable.
      BEKA: Uncomfortable? Rev, every nerve ending is on fire. My skull
      is two sizes too small. I want to rip my skin off with my
      fingernails. I was thinking. Maybe it would be better to taper off
      slowly, you know? Safer. I just need you to get me a couple of
      drops. I promise. I promise, just a taste.
      BEM: Beka, this will not end your pain. It will merely postpone it.
      BEKA: It's funny. I'm always the one that has it all together, but
      right now, I just, I just feel shattered into a million pieces.
      BEM: I have always believed the Divine loves us best at the broken
      times.
      BEKA: Well, I'm a pilot, and no one ever loved me best for screwing
      up.

      [Command]

      HARPER: Everything's redlining, boss. If I give the engines any
      more power, they'll explode.
      HUNT: Okay, let's bring it. Brace for slipstream, everyone. This
      isn't going to be fun.
      (Hunt takes them into slipstream, and through and out again.)
      TYR: Nicely done.
      HARPER: Whew! That unfamiliar sound you hear is me exhaling with
      relief.
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: You took us fifteen light years from the gravity
      well. We've almost cleared the core.
      TYR: Why are we headed toward Tarn-Vedra? I thought you wanted to
      turn back.
      HUNT: I do. I was heading in the opposite direction. That wasn't
      me. The ship transited all by itself.

      [Slipstream core]

      (Bem is lying twitching on V deck. Beka is high.)
      BEKA: The joke's on you, Sparky. Five more jumps. Five more jumps,
      Sparky, and we're home free.
      (She puts more Flash drops in her eyes.)

      [Command]

      (Hunt watches on the viewscreen.)
      HUNT: Tyr, report.
      TYR [OC]: Give me a plasma cannon and some shake-charges. I'll have
      her out of there in five minutes.
      HUNT: And if you spook her, she could drop us right into a
      supernova. We have to find another way.
      ROMMIE: What I want to know is how my security system was fooled
      into thinking Command had been destroyed in battle. It's the only
      way she could control me from the slipstream core.
      HARPER: Er, well. Rommie, you remember when we first met you?
      ROMMIE: When you tried to highjack me? Yes, Harper, I remember it
      well.
      HARPER: You were open salvage. Besides, we didn't know there'd be
      any High Guard leftovers on board. No offence, Dylan.
      HUNT: You installed overrides to bypass Andromeda's security
      system.
      ROMMIE: Overrides which you said you disconnected! Overrides which,
      if memory serves, and it always does, you disconnected under my
      personal supervision.
      HARPER: Okay, so maybe I didn't disconnect every single little
      override. I mean, we had only met you. Dylan was all very
      impressive, and for the most part we were buying this restore the
      Commonwealth game, but for all we knew, he could have been some
      whacko trying to take us on some insane quest.
      HUNT: Yeah, yeah, like finding Tarn-Vedra.
      HARPER: Okay, so we're paranoid. So sue us. We needed a Plan B. You
      always have a Plan B.
      HUNT: Yes, but my Plan B's work.

      [Outside Slipstream core]

      HUNT: Hey, Beka, it's Dylan.

      [Slipstream core]

      BEKA: If you're trying to bypass security, forget it.

      [Outside Slipstream core]

      HUNT: No, no, I just, I just want to talk.

      [Slipstream core]

      BEKA: Sorry, I'm just a little busy right now. I have to smooth out
      this

      [Outside Slipstream core]

      BEKA [OC]: Interface a titch.
      HUNT: You want some help?

      [Slipstream core]

      BEKA: Yeah! Yeah, that's a great idea. Why don't you just come on
      in

      [Outside Slipstream core]

      BEKA [OC]: And you can take over. You can turn us around and
      scamper on home.
      HUNT: Oh, so you're still trying to get to Tarn-Vedra.

      [Slipstream core]

      BEKA: What do you think, Dylan? I er, that I'd get you a birthday
      present and then just take it back? I'm sorry, Rocket. I needed it.
      But I'll get you another one, I promise.

      [Outside Slipstream core]

      HUNT: Who called you Rocket?

      [Slipstream core]

      BEKA: Like you don't know.
      HUNT [OC]: Pretend

      [Outside Slipstream core]

      HUNT: I don't.
      BEKA [OC]: Look, I'm not my father, okay?

      [Slipstream core]

      BEKA: I'm not an addict. I can stop any time I want.
      (She uses more Flash.)

      [Outside Slipstream core]

      HUNT: Then why don't you?

      [Slipstream core]

      BEKA: Because I made a promise. And this Valentine keeps her
      promises. Now, excuse me, I've got work to do.

      [Outside Slipstream core]

      HUNT: Damn it!
      HARPER [OC]: Boss, she cut the comm. link.
      HUNT: Then find a way around it. Andromeda, status.
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Beka's last heading is taking us too close to the
      quasar. I can't even activate the neutrino dampers with her
      re-routing the helm. You have to get her out of there.

      [Slipstream core]

      HOLO-HUNT: Beka.
      BEKA: Hey, Dylan. Fancy meeting you here.
      HOLO-HUNT: You have to turn around. Getting to Tarn-Vedra is not
      worth sacrificing my ship.
      BEKA: Give up? Ah, ah. No, not me. I don't give up. I may not be
      good for much, but you can always count on me to keep my word.
      HOLO-HUNT: You've got nothing to prove. You're one of the best
      starship pilots
      BEKA: What? You call that slagheap a starship?
      HOLO-HUNT: Frankly, I think it's a miracle you keep it flying at
      all.
      BEKA: I know. And if I can get that bucket of bolts to fly, just
      imagine what I can do with the Andromeda. I can get you all the way
      home.
      HOLO-HUNT: Beka, my home died a long time ago.
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Radiation level exceeding safety limits.
      (Harper bursts in from a conduit.)
      HARPER: Access code Zelazny seven four niner.
      (Beka starts to strangle Harper. The main door opens and Hunt
      enters. His hologram disappears.)
      HUNT: Beka, let him go!
      (Hunt pulls her off Harper.)
      BEKA: Ah, you bastard! You're just like the rest of them. You'll
      say anything to get what you want.
      HUNT: You know me better than that. I want to help you.
      BEKA: Oh, crap! You want to ditch me. You want to leave me.
      HUNT: Beka, look at yourself. Look! Look what you've become. Beka,
      I'm trying to stop you from killing yourself. I've lost four
      thousand people from my original crew. Four thousand! And I will be
      damned if I'm going to lose one more. Not like this, Beka. Not like
      this.
      BEKA: Just let me try one more time. One more dose, and I can jump
      us all the way
      HUNT: Into a sun or a black hole. Beka. Beka! The Flash is
      affecting your judgment. If you listen to it, it will kill you.
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Radiation level approaching critical.
      BEKA: I won't. I won't. I won't die.
      HUNT: Are you sure?
      BEKA: No. No. Take it.
      HARPER: Oh, man, she's overdosing.
      BEKA: Take it.
      HUNT: Harper.
      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Dylan, radiation levels are critical. We have to
      get out of here now.
      (Hunt takes them to slipstream using the joysticks Beka had fitted
      to the catwalk console.)

      [Command]

      TYR: What has she done?
      ROMMIE: Radiation levels are normal.

      [Slipstream core]

      ANDROMEDA [OC]: Dylan, we've transited back to the galactic fringe.
      We made it.
      HUNT: Good.

      [Medical]

      HUNT: Captain Valentine. It's good to have you back.
      BEKA: I guess I didn't get us to Tarn-Vedra.
      HUNT: No.
      BEKA: Did I wreck the ship?
      HUNT: You came damn close.
      BEKA: Trance. Is she?
      HUNT: She's fine. So's Rev.
      BEKA: Oh, my god. I shot Rev.
      HUNT: I think the betrayal hurt him more than the actual injury
      itself.
      BEKA: Flash might be good for your reflexes, but it's murder on
      your disposition.
      HUNT: Flash isn't good for anything, Beka. You almost killed
      yourself. If you had been in the Maru, you would have died.
      Andromeda barely pulled you through. I saw you, Beka. You liked
      being on Flash. I mean, it filled some kind of need in you. And
      even when it was killing you, you wanted more. Rommie may have been
      able to clean the chemicals out of your blood, but she can't fix
      that want or that need.
      BEKA: So from now on, every morning I'll wake up thinking about
      Flash, and every night I'll go to bed thinking about Flash. Is that
      it? What do you know, I'm my father after all.
      HUNT: In the High Guard, we pledged to hold the line against the
      night. That's what the Commonwealth meant. And on this ship, the
      Commonwealth still exists. On this ship, we hold the line against
      the darkness in all of us.
      BEKA: I know. Dylan, I know. I'm going to have to fight it every
      day for the rest of my life.
      HUNT: And I'll be with you every step of the way.

<Back to the episode listing

Andromeda and related marks are trademarks of Tribune Company. Copyright   2000
- 2005. The web pages on this site are for educational and entertainment
purposes only. All other copyrights property of their respective holders.

