Battlestar Galactica  >  Season 1  >  Six Degrees
of Separation

Battlestar Galactica s01e07 Episode Script

Six Degrees of Separation

NARRATOR: Previously on Battlestar Galactica: [Dramatic instrumental music] NO.
6: Ignoring me won't help.
BALTAR: No, I've decided you're an expression of my subconscious mind playing
itself out in my waking states.
So, I'm in your head? Of course if you're not really here, neither am I.
Do you have any idea what they would do to me if they find out? They'd probably
charge you with treason.
Treason is punishable by the death penalty.
HELO: Come on, Sharon.
Where are you? [Dramatic instrumental music] Helo! BOOMER: We gotta go.
Right now.
BALTAR: I don't see the hand of God in here.
Could I be looking in the wrong place? BALTAR: Let me see.
Proteins? Yes.
Haemoglobin? Yes.
BALTAR: Divine digits? No.
Sorry.
I'm sure I can find evidence of his divine hand in one of these delightful
samples.
After all, there are so fracking many I'm sure even I can be relied upon to
find God in one of them.
What is it that drives you to blasphemy, Gaius? NO.
6: A need to tempt fate? BALTAR: Boredom, actually.
BALTAR: Indeed, every waking hour is spent in what some might say, has become
my own personal religion.
The Church of the Mystic Cylon Detector.
Are you finished? [Mysterious instrumental music] NO.
6: If you would give yourself over to God's will you'd find peace in his love
as I have.
Could you help me with this zipper? I'm having trouble.
NO.
6: He has a plan for us.
BALTAR: How do you know it's a he? There is only one, true God.
Really? You running a glitch in the programme or something? 'Cause you say the
same thing over and over again.
Now, I've accepted your God and all that.
Can't we reboot the hard drive? He's not my God.
He is God.
Yeah, your God, my God, everyone's God.
He's big enough for all of us, isn't he? Now, please.
BALTAR: Please, honey.
Can't we do something a little more elevating? It's important you form a
personal relationship with God.
Only you can give yourself over to his eternal love.
For God's sake! BALTAR: I can't take this anymore! NO.
6: I'm trying to save your immortal soul.
What you are doing, darling, is boring me to death with your superstitious
drivel.
Your metaphysical nonsense which, to be fair, actually appeals to the
half-educated dullards that make up most of human society, but which, I hasten
to add no rational, intelligent, free-thinking human being truly believes.
Which leads me to the inescapable conclusion that Cylons are, in the final
[Mysterious instrumental music continues] That Cylons are, in the final
analysis, little more than toasters with great looking legs.
It's my fantasy.
See if I care.
I'll dream up someone new a brunette maybe.
[Knocking on door] Maybe we can dispense with the foreplay.
Get right down to What did you say? That was nothing.
I was just talking to myself.
I talk to myself.
Hang me.
The Commander would like to see you in the CIC, Doctor.
There you are.
Very nice.
- That blouse could open up a button.
- Excuse me? You wanted to see me, Commander? ADAMA: Miss Godfrey has brought
some very disturbing accusations to my attention.
I think you should have the chance to answer them in person.
Right.
Thank you.
- And she is? - She's standing right there.
- I'm right here.
- Yeah, of course you are.
- And? - Doctor, this is Miss Godfrey.
[Baltar clears throat] All of you can see her? You can all see her! She's
standing right next to you.
- Something wrong? - No.
Don't make me angry, Gaius.
I'd say you have a serious problem.
NO.
6: Get down.
Yes, maybe I You'll have to forgive me, Miss Godfrey.
I'm very pleased, if slightly puzzled, to make your acquaintance.
Don't touch me, you traitor.
Is she talking to me? You talking to me? You're the one who let the Cylons into
the defence mainframe.
You betrayed your entire race.
You're the man responsible for the Holocaust and I'm here to see that you're
exposed and sentenced to death as the traitor you really are.
[Theme music] Doctor, Miss Godfrey has made some startling accusations.
I've never seen this woman before in my life.
Not surprised you don't remember me.
I was just a lowly systems analyst at the defence ministry.
Doctor Amarak was my associate.
She says you sold out the human race.
You let the Cylons into our defence plans.
NO.
6: Doctor Amarak told me he had evidence that Doctor Baltar was involved in the
sneak attack.
He was trying to reach the President and inform her when he was killed.
- He told you that, did he? - Yes.
It's a pity he's no longer with us.
How convenient that we only have your word for that.
- There's also this.
- Yeah, what the frack's that? NO.
6: He gave me this for safekeeping.
ADAMA: It's ID coded.
Colonial Defence Ministry.
Dr.
Amarak gave the disk to me before he died.
BALTAR: What, as opposed to after he died? NO.
6: He gave me the disk for safekeeping.
On the disk is a photo.
It was captured from the security camera in the defence mainframe on Caprica.
NO.
6: It shows the doctor entering the mainframe without permission the day before
the attack.
[lntense instrumental music] BALTAR: Nothing criminal about that.
As you can see, the man in the photo is carrying an explosive device.
BALTAR: Sorry, what? I definitely never did that.
Just before the Cylon attack, the entire defence mainframe was destroyed by
this device.
BALTAR: Honestly, that is not me.
I wasn't there.
It's somebody else.
BALTAR: Look, it's not me.
I'm not the man in the photograph.
ADAMA: I see a man.
Same height, same build, but that's a long way from proof.
Thank you, Commander.
Now, if we're quite done with this charade, I'm I agree, Commander, but look
here.
In the faceplate of the computer terminal, there's a reflection of the man's
face.
TIGH: You can't tell anything from that.
BALTAR: Thank you, Colonel.
With the right equipment, the image could be enlarged and sharpened.
We could see his face.
Enlarging the image is no problem, but sharpening it - Take forever.
- It'd take at least a day, sir.
Mr.
Gaeta, let me know as soon as you have an image.
Sir.
You're going to suspend all work on the Cylon detector - What? as well as your
security privileges.
CALLY: Starbuck's notes on the Cylon Raider are a mess.
CALLY: She said "the engine power-up sequence began by squeezing something
"that looks like a red ligament with blue veins on the right side "coming out
of a sack of gooey fluid - "shaped like a dog.
" - Are you kidding me? This whole thing is a bunch of veins and ligaments and
sacks of goo.
CALLY: "Squeeze the ligament with your hand "while you slide your weight "on
your left hip into the lymphatic sack.
" TYROL: That's just stupid.
CALLY: Afternoon, sir.
TIGH: Specialist.
- Chief's inside? - Yeah.
TIGH: Chief.
TYROL: God! Yes, sir? TIGH: How's it coming in there? TYROL: I'm getting there,
sir.
I haven't quite figured out all the tricks, but I'm getting there.
APOLLO: Come on, Starbuck, you can do it.
That smarts.
That smarts, but I don't care.
You don't care.
I don't care, because your pain is my entertainment.
Your crutches of death, sir.
Use them wisely.
Shut up.
It's gonna hurt like hell, but it's supposed to.
Thanks, Doc.
No pain, no gain.
No clich left unturned as Kara Thrace returns to the world of the walking.
Can she do it or will she fall on her ass? I swear to the Gods, I'm gonna beat
the crap out of both of you as soon as I get better.
STARBUCK: No, I can't.
APOLLO: Yes, you can.
You did it.
STARBUCK: I can't.
You're not gonna get better lying on your back.
Frack off! Just take a break for five minutes, we'll try again.
I don't want to do it again.
I want a pill, now, please.
Sorry, we're weaning you off the magic pills starting today.
Besides, I need them for myself.
You son of a bitch.
ROSLIN: I am finding this whole thing hard to fathom, Doctor.
Thank you, Madam President.
I can't tell you how much that means to me.
Look, I was wondering, is there any chance that while this investigation is
going on, I could come back to the Colonial One because I've left some of my
things there.
No, I'm sorry, Doctor.
You have been put on a "no fly list.
" Security.
BALTAR: [Whispering] Madam President, I need to get off Galactica.
I need to get away from this Shelly Godfrey woman in particular.
She's got it in for me.
BALTAR: Where are you? [Pounding instrumental music] Madam President, I have
reason to believe that she may be a Cylon.
[lntense instrumental music] Madam President? Madam President? BALTAR: Hello?
BILLY: Get Doc Cottle on the wireless, the President has collapsed.
Hello? EICK: Is she alive? BILLY: Yes, the President is alive.
BILLY: I told you, she's conscious, she's resting.
BILLY: She's receiving treatment.
PLAYA: What kind of treatment? Asked and answered.
BILLY: We think it's a stomach flu.
PLAYA: What kind of treatment? How many of these did you take, young lady? -
One, two? - Two.
- Three.
- Three times the dosage.
Must work three times as fast then, right? Everybody wants to be their own
doctor, you are lucky you didn't lapse into a coma.
You can't cure cancer by overdose.
[Knocking on door] BILLY: Story's all over the fleet.
I'm so sorry.
ROSLIN: It's okay.
It seemed like an emergency.
I didn't think that anyone might be picking up the transmission.
We're all new at this.
It's okay.
The thing to do now is to get me on my feet and in front of the press before
the end of the day.
I could give you a shot, but you wouldn't like the side effects.
Just do it.
The time is going to come when you won't be able to hide what you're going
through.
It's not that kind of a shot.
Thank you.
Baltar's correct about the convenience of it all.
Amarak just happens to bring you the key piece of evidence just before he dies.
Something was going on.
He was almost paranoid.
Kept saying that the Olympic Carrier had been infiltrated by the Cylons.
He wanted me to take some things off the ship for safekeeping.
Why'd he give it to you? We were friends.
Friends? I loved him.
I loved him very much.
[Solemn instrumental music] [No.
6 crying] NO.
6: There are times when I just feel so alone now.
Times when I just want so much to be held again.
- You understand that, don't you? - Of course.
There must be times when you feel alone.
And the thought of another body next to yours seems like something out of
dream.
[Solemn instrumental music intensifies] ADAMA: Do not, under any circumstances,
allow Shelly Godfrey to leave this ship.
Put her under surveillance, discreetly.
I want to know everybody she's talked to, and everywhere she's been.
[Dramatic instrumental music] HELO: Come on, Sharon! Get up.
[Dramatic instrumental music continues] [Computer beeping] PILOT: Excuse me.
BALTAR: [Whispering] Lieutenant? Is that you? GAETA: Doctor? BALTAR: Isn't this
a coincidence.
BALTAR: So, how are you doing? GAETA: I'm BALTAR: You're busy.
Yes, I know.
BALTAR: I don't mean to distract you.
Please, don't let me interrupt you.
[Baltar whistling] BALTAR: You still there? GAETA: Yup.
BALTAR: I know this is an awkward time.
But it occurred to me I haven't told you how invaluable your assistance has
been over the past few weeks.
Thank you, Doctor.
You have no idea how much that means to me.
BALTAR: Not at all.
BALTAR: So, how's it going over there? BALTAR: In the lab, that is? I'm talking
about the photograph.
GAETA: Right.
It's coming along.
BALTAR: Great.
GAETA: Quickly, actually.
A few more hours to go.
BALTAR: Has it ever occurred to you that the photograph disk itself could be a
fake? I've already authenticated the disk.
BALTAR: Obviously, you're good.
But there are many ways around security.
If I could join you in the lab for just two minutes of your time, I could show
you.
I really don't think that's possible.
Listen to me, nobody would need to know.
It would just be you and me.
GAETA: I know.
For God's sake, my life is on the line.
My reputation is at stake.
GAETA: So is mine, Doctor.
I really BALTAR: [Shushing] Someone's coming.
[Door closing] [Toilet flushing] BALTAR: Wait, Gaeta! You forgot to wash your
hands! NO.
6: What the hell BALTAR: I want answers, now! BALTAR: I'm not interested in
playing any more of your games! NO.
6: Have you lost your mind? BALTAR: That's an interesting question one I pose
to myself on a regular basis.
BALTAR: Who's really in the photograph? NO.
6: You are! I didn't plant any bomb, anywhere, at any time, and you know that.
I don't know anything of this sort.
Now, if you'll excuse me.
All right.
Let's entertain the notion, just for a moment that you are not the woman that I
see everywhere.
You are not Shelly Godfrey, either.
You're a fake.
You're just a copy.
Another Cylon copy.
Get out.
BALTAR: Struck a nerve, have I? Which I find rather impossible to believe! You
think this is over? This is not over! You have not heard the last.
No more "Mr.
Nice Gaius"! Women.
[Machine whirring] TYROL: Stupid.
Unbelievable.
TYROL: Bucket! BOOMER: Not a good time? No, it's fine.
Guess you're having problems? TYROL: I can't get this thing to work.
I've been over it and over it, and nothing.
I have no idea how Starbuck got this thing to move.
TYROL: Much less fly.
BOOMER: It's not really a thing, you know.
It's probably a Cylon itself.
[Suspenseful instrumental music] BOOMER: More of an animal maybe, than the
human models.
BOOMER: Maybe they genetically design it to perform a task.
BOOMER: To be a fighter.
Can't treat it like a thing and expect it to respond.
You have to treat it like a pet.
But, at least, that's my guess.
- Your guess? - Yeah, that's right.
My guess.
BOOMER: Something else you want to say? TYROL: No.
Lieutenant.
I heard you were supposed to be up on your feet by now.
STARBUCK: You heard wrong.
I figured you wouldn't bounce back so fast.
Is there something you wanted, or did you just drop by to torment me, sir? The
Chief wanted me to kick your ass out of bed so you could help figure out that
Raider of yours.
But, clearly, you still need the rest.
Take your time.
No rush.
Do you actually think that reverse psychology crap is going to work on me? I
really don't care what you think.
All I know is that every day you spend in that bed is another day that I have
my opinion of you confirmed.
As you were.
And I am convinced, in fact, that she is a Cylon agent.
In my opinion, she should be locked up before she can do any more damage.
[Tense instrumental music] Where are you? BALTAR: You're having a little fun?
Do you enjoy messing around with my life? ADAMA: Do you have any evidence to
support this charge? Work on the Cylon detector is nearly complete with a few
tweaks.
I'll have a test regime up and running.
All I need is a tissue sample from this woman for analysis.
I thought we had something.
Something special.
ADAMA: I can't allow you access to your equipment.
All right.
But under instruction, I can surely tell Gaeta how to prepare the samples.
- It's not difficult.
- Let me be frank with you, Doctor.
If your picture is on that photograph every piece of equipment in your
laboratory will be dismantled and quarantined.
And every person that you have met will be questioned and investigated.
BALTAR: I love you.
There, I've said it.
Isn't that what you've been dying to hear? I am willing to make that commitment
to you right now.
The President believes I'm innocent.
The President hopes you're innocent.
And so do I.
Because if you're not, then you've made fools of both of us.
And I don't like to be made a fool of.
And I don't like to be accused of participating in the genocide of the human
race based solely on the word of a woman whom I have already indicated to you
may well be a Cylon agent.
I'm willing to do anything.
Anything at all.
I need your help.
I did not conspire with the Cylons.
I am an innocent man who is being convicted in the court of public opinion
without trial.
[Tense instrumental music] [lncoherent voices] WOMAN: Traitor.
[Exhaling] [Tense instrumental music] WOMAN: Fire.
All units report to damage control stations.
MAN 1: We got a fire! MAN 2: Let's go.
Clear the doors! [Alarm beeping] [lndistinct chattering] [Alarm beeping loudly]
Frack! No fires reported anywhere on the ship.
TIGH: The exact location of the alarm.
WOMAN: D-Wing corridor where it intersects with C-Wing.
ADAMA: That's the lab.
Erase.
[Dramatic instrumental music] [Dramatic instrumental music continues] [Gasping]
TIGH: Put it down! Put it down.
[Solemn instrumental music] MAN 1: All right, move in.
ADAMA: Take him to the Brig.
MAN 1: Yes, Commander.
I would like to speak to my attorney.
Can't I speak to my attorney? BALTAR: I need some representation, it's not what
it looks like.
She's got it in for me, that Shelly Godfrey! STARBUCK: Shut up.
All of you.
Not one single word from any of you, okay? What seems to be the problem? Your
new boyfriend's a bit of a jerk, sir.
STARBUCK: It's a girl.
TYROL: If you don't mind her goo on your face, she's all yours, sir.
STARBUCK: Okay.
TYROL: He likes the warm light.
STARBUCK: Makes the touch easier, right? STARBUCK: Maybe, okay.
[Whining] This is stupid.
STARBUCK: This is stupid.
It's worth a try, sir.
It did fly for you once.
Hasn't made so much as a grunt since.
TYROL: I don't know, take it for a ride.
STARBUCK: Ride it.
TYROL: Treat it like a horse.
STARBUCK: Okay, a horse.
Why not a goat? That's good, right? Think of it as a goat.
Okay.
Whatever.
Come on, boy.
Giddyup! [Engine starting] Okay, you're kidding.
Chief? TYROL: Don't shoot anything.
ROSLIN: Doctor.
Madam President.
- I am so sorry.
- Thank you.
You are here to free me, right? To bring this travesty to a close because you
know I'm innocent.
Just tell me, so I understand because I want to understand why you did it.
I didn't do it.
It wasn't me.
BALTAR: I'm being framed! ROSLIN: Why would she do that? Because she's a Cylon.
She's a Cylon.
- You are going to have to believe me.
- I want to believe you.
I want to believe that I haven't made such a profound error in judgment in
trusting you and asking your advice.
But here's where we are, Doctor.
If anyone can be a Cylon, and it's hard to tell us apart then we only have one
thing left to trust our instincts, feelings.
And the moment they told me it was your face in the photo I knew I believed it.
I believe you're involved in the attack.
Somehow, I feel it.
You'll forgive me, Madam President if I don't wish to be executed based solely
on your gut feeling.
May the gods have mercy on your soul.
HELO: Call it.
BOOMER: Heads.
HELO: Heads.
You win.
You sleep.
I watch.
BOOMER: No.
You're the one who needs sleep.
I couldn't sleep if I had to listen to Tyrol read the flight manual.
Okay.
Truth is if something happened to you I wouldn't know how to deal with it.
I feel the same way.
[Thunder rumbling] Back on the ship HELO: Look, I knew what was going on.
I mean, between you and the Chief.
I think everybody did.
And I respected it.
Your feelings, his.
[Soft instrumental music] But I would've given anything to be him.
I'm not trying to put you on the spot here.
I don't want to step on what you two have.
HELO: You feel the way you feel and I have to respect it.
[Thunder clapping] [Rhythmic instrumental music] BOOMER: No.
It's not true.
[Gasping and groaning] [Rhythmic instrumental music continues] [Solemn
instrumental music] I know we haven't spoke before.
But I don't wish to offend.
Please.
BALTAR: Dear God I now acknowledge that you are the one true God.
Deliver me from this evil and I will devote the rest of what is left of my
wretched life to doing good.
I don't know what to To carrying out your divine will is what I want to do.
[Solemn instrumental music continues] To carry out your divine will.
Grant me grace and forgiveness.
[No.
6 shushing] I'm here now.
I'm here.
All will be well.
It will be as God wants it to be.
[Knocking on door] GAETA: Open the door.
Wait.
I haven't even had a trial yet.
No! Wait! It's a lie! - Doctor, it's all right.
- It's a lie! GAETA: Photograph was a fake.
BALTAR: What? It was almost seamless, but your face, the man, the reflection,
it was all a fake.
BALTAR: Of course it was a fake.
I don't wear a shirt like that.
BALTAR: How did you GAETA: I went back, re-ran security checks.
This time I found markers which pointed to photo manipulation.
They weren't apparent until the photo was fully resolved.
You re-ran the security checks? Thank you.
I just knew that you could never have anything to do with that attack.
GAETA: You're not that kind of man.
It was really nothing.
Once the photos were fully resolved it was almost too easy, like she wanted to
be found out.
ADAMA: How did she get off? TIGH: Got me.
- There's been no ships.
- I gave you an order.
I had two Marines tailing her.
They say they went around a corner and she was gone.
Every ship in the fleet has reported in, sir.
No sign of her.
That's unacceptable.
She was here.
She was right here.
This woman existed.
She didn't just vanish.
Have them check again.
- Every ship? - Every ship, including this one.
[Tense instrumental music] She didn't just vanish.
ROSLIN: that he had been a victim of treachery and deceit.
Clearly, the Cylons wanted to discredit Doctor Baltar because of his work on
the Cylon detector.
Doctor Baltar, it gives me great pleasure to exonerate you publicly and to
recognise you, once again, among us as a scientist, a leader, and a friend.
[All applauding] NO.
6: You're a hero.
You're even more popular and powerful than ever before.
You've had your trial by fire, so now they truly believe in you.
Hard for anyone to accuse you of treason again.
[Tense instrumental music continues] Was that the plan all along? Build me up
in the public eye by first tearing me down? Right.
Who am I to question the plans of Almighty God? BALTAR: Just one, small,
practical question.
Shelly? Shelly Godfrey? Was there ever a woman really called Shelly Godfrey?
Did she ever actually exist? Was she ever really here? God's will be done.
[Theme music]
