Battlestar Galactica  >  Season 1  >  Act of
Contrition

Battlestar Galactica s01e04 Episode Script

Act of Contrition

NARRATOR: Previously on Battlestar Galactica.
[Dramatic instrumental music] Zak failed basic flight.
But he didn't because I passed him.
I can't decode it, but it means there's someone.
Someone in the military is still alive and kicking here in Caprica.
[Cheering] I have cancer.
And I fear that knowledge of my illness will erode hope.
So this has to stay between you and me.
- Zak was my brother.
- What was he to me, nothing? Same old Lee.
You haven't changed either.
[Warning system beeping] [Coughs] [Spacecraft engine droning] Helmet! - You are
so unprepared.
- Shut up! [Laughs] You're the worst CAG in the history of CAGs actually.
DUALLA: Raptor pilot Lt.
Dwight Flat-top Sanders entering hangar Deck 12 B.
Deck hands, please report.
DUALLA: Repeat, deck hands, please report to 12 B.
PILOT 1: There he is! PILOT 2: Way to go, Lieutenant! [Pilots cheering] PILOT
1: Raptor Pilots flying high! PILOTS: Raptor Pilots flying high! - Red paint,
incoming! - Brush? You're the worst.
The absolute worst! Here.
PILOT 1: Raptor Pilots flying by! PILOTS: Raptor Pilots flying by! What the
hell is this? Flat-top's 1,000th landing and nobody tells me.
Now we look like idiots.
TYROL: Find a wagon! DECK HAND: Yes, sir! Somebody get me a wagon! One, zero,
zero.
ADAMA: You're not ready yet? [Laughing] Someone's going to have to pick that
up.
[Giggling] - Stop it! - Let's go, come on.
This one is perfect.
Take this.
Here, give me a hand.
Unload this.
Put it wherever.
You two, come here.
Take this wagon to the palace.
[Pilots singing and cheering] STARBUCK: Did the Commander tell you what
happened on his 1,000th landing? - I don't remember telling you what I did.
- Whatever.
STARBUCK: He's landing on the Atlantia and he's been having this ongoing fight
with the LSO and so he decides he'll stick it to him good.
This has all been over-exaggerated.
PILOTS: Come on, people, watch them bake PILOT 1: Three Little Cylons in the
air PILOTS: Three Little Cylons in the air.
PILOT 1: Watch their metal burn and flare! So, he skids to a stop on the flight
deck and the LSO hears over the wire there's this big, loud, long, obnoxious
[Farting noise] [Laughing] ADAMA: I was young.
STARBUCK: It was great.
It was really funny.
PILOT 1: Two Little Cylons jump in their cave PILOT 1: Come on A-CARS make
their grave! The LSO is freaking out your dad doesn't care because he hates the
guy.
He figures he can get away with it 'cause it's his 1,000th landing.
"I can get away with anything today!" PILOTS: Watch that tin can hit the spot!
[Dramatic instrumental music] PILOT 1: Five Little Cylons in the grass PILOTS:
Watch the Raptor light their ass! [Explosion] DUALLA: Attention! Fire on the
port hangar deck.
DUALLA: Away the fire and rescue team ADAMA: Let's go! [Theme music] [Struggles
and pants] [Warning system beeping] Metal fatigue, old equipment.
Worn strap fails, drops a million cubic drone to the deck.
Kills 13 pilots and lands seven more in sick bay.
HADRIAN: It's hard to hear this, but we got lucky.
If that had been a missile instead of a cone drone it could've taken out the
side of the ship.
Never had a death in my hangar deck.
Accidents.
Never a death.
Services for the dead.
APOLLO: Services will commence at 1100 hours on the forward hangar deck.
Mid-ship's hangar deck remains closed for investigation and clean up until
further notice.
Uniforms for the services will be dress greys.
I wish I knew what to say, words to make this better.
Can anything make this better? I don't know.
ADAMA: Attention on deck! ADAMA: As you were.
ADAMA: May I? APOLLO: Yes, sir.
[Eerie instrumental music] Are you Lt.
Thrace? Give me your eyes.
I know this has been a hard day.
ADAMA: There's been plenty of them lately.
I can guarantee you there'll be more to come.
ADAMA: Remember your self-esteem.
Your self-respect.
And your self-worth.
Hold strong to them, because people are watching.
You're the guardians of the fleet.
They need to know that they can count on you.
ADAMA: Even at a time like this.
ADAMA: Are you Lt.
Thrace? I'm Cdr.
Adama.
Zak's father.
I know, sir.
I'm sorry, sir.
I was planning on coming to see you tomorrow before the funeral.
You don't need to explain anything.
GUARD: Present arms! GUARD: Order arms! Once again, we are charged with the
solemn duty to return the bodies of our own to the universe from which the
Lords of Kobol brought them to us.
CLERIC: The burdens of this life are with us but a short time.
For Lt.
Zak Adama, son of William and Caroline Adama brother of Lee, the time was too
short.
CLERIC: But we take comfort in knowing his life was willingly given in service
to all of us.
CLERIC: We honour them for that.
CLERIC: And, thus, it falls upon us to repent our sins and with the help of the
Lords of Kobol make our own lives worthy of that gift.
CLERIC: And now, we commit his body to the ground from which we were all made.
ELOSHA: Secure in the knowledge that we will be reunited with them in a better
world to come.
[Melancholic instrumental music] So say we all.
So say we all.
[Snare drums sounding military drumbeat] GUARD: Present arms! [Gunshot]
[Gunshot] [Gunshot] ADAMA: Pilots we've known.
ADAMA: I have to start training new pilots.
[Starbuck chuckles] There it is.
[Clears throat] I kind of thought this was about that.
I don't know if I'm the right person for this.
- Do you know someone better? - No.
But there's almost 50,000 people out there.
Trying to tell me there's not one flight instructor? There's two.
Civilians.
Both.
ADAMA: But I need someone to teach combat tactics.
You know, I don't know if I'd be of any use to you.
- I wasn't the most patient.
- Let's get down to it.
This is about Zak.
It was not your fault.
You had nothing to do with what happened.
It was an accident.
Lee? Zak failed basic flight.
- What? - Or at least he should have, but he didn't because I passed him.
His technique was sloppy and he had no feel for flying but I passed him.
Because he and I Because I felt something and I let it get in the way of doing
my job.
STARBUCK: And I couldn't fail him.
Zak passed basic flight.
ADAMA: He was trained and ready to sit in that cockpit.
What happened to him could've happened to any qualified pilot.
- You know that's true.
- Right.
You did your job to the best of your ability.
That's all I can ask.
I need new pilots.
And I want you to train them.
I can do that.
[Sighs] Just give them the attention and the professionalism that you gave my
son.
And they'll be one hell of a squadron.
Ten cubits says she takes him this time.
You're on.
Thanks for the vote of confidence.
Ten to stay.
So, Gaeta, how are you and the Doc here doing on your Cylon detector? What
Cylon detector? CRASHDOWN: Rumour has it that Cylons look like people and you
guys are working on a way to weed them out, right? ZAK: I want you to tell me
the truth about something.
STARBUCK: You passed.
By the skin of your teeth, but you passed.
ZAK: I don't want any special treatment.
Not from my father and certainly not from you.
GAETA: If there were such a programme, it would be classified and I wouldn't be
able to talk about it.
BALTAR: Something smells horrible in here.
Is that you, Crashdown? CRASHDOWN: Yeah, that's me.
BALTAR: Your card.
BALTAR: Your card.
Zak, I'm a flight instructor.
I'm not going to send you to Vipers if I don't think you got the chops.
Okay? Hello? Are you all right? BALTAR: Look [Pants] Maybe you'd like to take a
break? [Clears throat] I'm out of here.
Starbuck? CRASHDOWN: Okay, she can't do that.
BOOMER: She can and she did.
[Mysterious instrumental music] BOOMER: This is it.
HELO: Restaurant.
BOOMER: I'm almost on top of the signal.
I don't get it.
How does a military coded signal end up coming from in here? Let's find out.
Nothing.
Is that thing working? BOOMER: I checked it three times.
BOOMER: This thing says we're right on top of it.
HELO: Of what? What? BOOMER: Helo.
HELO: You're frackking kidding me.
[Helo laughs] HELO: Food.
Medical supplies.
[Helo yelps] HELO: Wait a minute, the signal.
[Beeping] BOOMER: Disaster beacon.
It's been set to go off if there was an attack.
Some poor slob goes to all the trouble of building a fallout shelter, stocks it
has a beacon, the whole planet Then what? What happens to him? Let's just call
ourselves lucky and leave it at that.
[Eerie instrumental music] - Madame President.
- Would you close that curtain, please? ROSLIN: Thank you.
You are obviously an intelligent, well-educated young woman.
Would you mind explaining to me why you waited five years in between breast
exams? Yes, I would mind.
It's none of your business.
I was busy.
- And now, here you are.
- Yes.
Here we are.
- Would you mind? - I do, actually.
Your doctor back on Caprica was right.
It's too damn late to operate, the cancer is too far advanced.
DOC COTTLE: We can try to shrink the tumour with gamma treatments and follow
that up with IV cis-Doloxan.
Did he explain to you the side-effects of Doloxan? Hair loss, nausea, muscle
degeneration.
I watched my mother endure two years of Doloxan before she died.
I would like to explore alternate treatment.
DOC COTTLE: Prayer? ROSLIN: Witty.
Have you ever heard of Chamalla extract? DOC COTTLE: Gods.
You're one of those.
ROSLIN: What if it works? All the evidence on Chamalla is anecdotal.
DOC COTTLE: It's nothing but a bunch of loose talk and false hope.
ROSLIN: I'll take that as a yes.
All right.
I'll put out a med request to the civilian fleet.
Maybe there's some other wide-eyed dreamer out there with a secret horde of
Chamalla extract in their luggage.
DOC COTTLE: Put your clothes back on now.
ROSLIN: Thank you.
DOC COTTLE: And for what it's worth I would seriously consider prayer.
Boonie jumpers.
Shuttle jockies.
And a Fleet Academy wash-out.
This is the best that you could come up with? - Diamonds in the rough.
- Yeah, right.
APOLLO: They're the most qualified pilots in the fleet.
STARBUCK: Great! STARBUCK: Attention on deck.
That means get on your feet, nuggets! You are joining the Colonial Fleet, boys
and girls, not some after-school club.
Seats.
STARBUCK: Pilots call me Starbuck, but you may refer to me as God.
You've all flown before, but you're about to enter a whole new world so pay
attention.
We don't have any flight simulators on board so we're putting you into the
cockpit, today.
This is the Viper Mark II.
It's as manoeuvrable as a jack-rabbit, and can flip end for end in 0.
35 seconds.
You've never flown anything remotely like it, so don't think that you have.
STARBUCK: Today we'll do basic launch, approach, and landing manoeuvres and
anyone not paying attention is liable to end up as a puddle or something to be
hosed out of the cockpit by the chief of the deck.
She's laying it on a little thick.
STARBUCK: Costanza, right? COSTANZA: Yes, God, sir.
Not anymore.
From now on, your name is "Hot Dog.
" And when God speaks, Hot Dog, you listen.
Maybe if you had learned that at the Academy, you wouldn't have washed out.
Sit up! LSO: Viper 791 Galactica, you are cleared for approach.
LSO: Speed 175 port bay, hands on approach checkers green.
Call the ball.
I have the ball.
STARBUCK: Easy on the throttle, Kat.
STARBUCK: Are you listening to me? Don't chase the lights, okay? KAT: Roger,
Starbuck.
STARBUCK: Kat, don't chase the lights! Set it by the numbers and correct with
thrusters.
LSO: Wave-off! Punch it, Kat! Worse than awful.
Wretched beyond belief, actually.
STARBUCK: You call yourselves pilots.
It'll take the knuckle draggers a week to pound your divots out of the flight
deck.
- With due respect, sir, that's unfair.
- Yes, sir.
This was only our first day.
No.
It's your last.
It would be criminal to let any of you near a Viper again.
So pack your gear and get the hell off my ship.
You're done.
What are you doing here, Kara? - You can't wash them out on their first day.
- I just did.
Look, I got 40 Vipers, and 21 pilots.
That's it.
We are sitting ducks until we finish water-op's.
We can't even maintain a CAP.
And Gods forbid the Cylons show up.
Gods forbid.
Let's bring in the next group of candidates.
The next group has never even been in a cockpit.
- They're starting basic flight.
- Then they start basic flight.
Because that group is done.
It says so right there.
Maybe you should read it again.
APOLLO: Lt.
Thrace, this is not a request.
STARBUCK: Well, Capt.
Adama! I am the flight instructor, sir.
My word is scripture, sir.
STARBUCK: I will not, repeat, not pass another student who isn't ready.
So, that's what this is about.
It's not them.
It's Zak.
Careful.
Step back.
[Pants and grunts] [Grunts] ADAMA: Starbuck says they can't cut it, they can't
cut it.
She's not giving them a chance.
It's Day 1.
She's one of the finest pilots I've ever seen in my life.
One day in the cockpit is all she needs to know if they can hack it or not.
ADAMA: She got that.
APOLLO: I'm not arguing that, sir.
I'm just saying that I think she's letting her personal feelings cloud her
judgment.
Please sit down, Captain.
ADAMA: What are those feelings? About Zak.
- We've talked about, Zak.
- You did? ADAMA: We've talked about a lot of things.
We've been aboard this ship for over two years.
We know each other very well.
When I asked her to be the instructor I knew it was going to release a lot of
loose baggage.
She acknowledged it.
She's a professional.
She'll do her job.
Okay.
I'm just saying that you should talk to her.
APOLLO: She's walking around with a lot of emotion.
She almost decked me in the rec room.
Right.
You wouldn't smile if you were there.
- I'll talk to her.
- Thank you.
Personally I think she's trying to work out her guilt over what she did for
Zak.
I think she's making up for it by beating up on these guys.
Guilt? Over what? What did she do for Zak? - I thought you just said - What did
she do? It's not my place to say and I've already said more than I should have.
- You'll have to ask her.
I'm sorry.
- Captain, just Dad, you'll have to ask her.
ZAK: I don't want any special treatment.
Not from my father, and certainly not from you.
You passed.
By the skin of your teeth, but you passed.
DUALLA: Attention.
Pass the word to Lt.
Thrace.
Lt.
Thrace, please report to the CO's quarters.
Yes.
Come in.
ADAMA: Lee was just here before.
STARBUCK: I knew it.
He thinks you washed out the nuggets without giving them a chance.
They didn't cut it.
That's it.
He thought you were letting personal feelings cloud your judgment.
STARBUCK: Really? ADAMA: Your feelings about Zak.
That's not the case.
Okay.
ADAMA: He said something else.
He said something that I would like to ask you directly.
ADAMA: He said that you might be feeling guilty about something that you did
for Zak.
What did you do for him? STARBUCK: I don't know.
Ask Lee.
ADAMA: I'm asking you.
I don't know I don't really know what he was talking about, so Don't fence with
me, Kara.
I love you like a daughter.
I don't deserve that.
Zak failed basic flight.
He wasn't a bad pilot.
He just had no feel for flying.
And when it came to his final check-ride, he busted three of the test
manoeuvres.
And I should have flunked him, but I didn't.
The bottom line is that your son didn't have the chops to fly a Viper.
And it killed him.
ADAMA: He told me that you were an amazing instructor.
And that he was involved with you, and that it was serious.
He asked me to come to his graduation from flight school - to watch him get his
wings.
- I know.
I read the letter.
I see.
Then, maybe you can tell me what he was hinting at.
Surprise, about you.
We were going to You know what, it's not important.
- I don't want that to - You were engaged, right? You did it because you were
engaged.
[Sombre instrumental music] Because I made a mistake.
And because I was just I was so in love with him.
And I let that get in the way of doing my job.
He just wanted it so much and I didn't want to be the one who crushed him.
Reinstate the trainees to flight status.
I will.
- I just want you to understand that I - Do your job.
Yes, sir.
And walk out of this cabin while you still can.
[Starbuck clears her throat] Unpack your gear.
You are all returned to flight status.
We're going to try this again.
Those of you who can be trained to safely fly the Viper Mark II will pass.
Those of you who cannot, will be cut.
STARBUCK: It's my job to figure out which is which, without personal feeling
either way.
And I'm going to do my job.
Kat, Chuckles, Hot Dog, you're up first.
Pre-flight briefing in 20 minutes.
CHUCKLES: Where the hell are you going, Hot Dog? Stay on me.
HOT DOG: Target acquired and destroyed.
Not bad, Hot Dog, but you left your leader behind.
KAT: Looks like you're having a bad day, Hot Dog.
- And the moral of this story is? - Never leave your leader.
Thank you.
That is correct.
You never want to be out here alone.
STARBUCK: Okay, Chuckles, take Kat's wing.
Hot Dog, you're on me.
We'll try a little manoeuvre called "Thorch Weave.
" I'll be damned.
What's got into Starbuck? TIGH: She actually sounds like a real instructor for
a change.
TIGH: She may actually make Viper pilots out of some of those nuggets after
all.
STARBUCK: Holy crap, we've got incoming.
TIGH: Where the hell did they come from? Dradis.
Multiple contacts.
GAETA: It's the Cylons.
TIGH: Why didn't we see them coming? Launch the alert fighters.
Attention! Set Condition 1 throughout the fleet.
Galactica, send the Calvary.
Nuggets, punch it for home.
[Suspenseful instrumental music] ADAMA: Where's the base ship? GAETA: No base
ships detected, sir.
GAETA: Eight raiders, bearing 047 carom 118.
Range 22,000.
They found us.
It was only a matter of time.
Galactica, Starbuck.
Where the hell are the alert fighters? ALERT ONE: Starbuck, Alert One.
Be there in two minutes.
The Cylons are gaining! All right, listen up, nuggets.
Stay together and keep your throttles firewalled until you hit the deck.
STARBUCK: Now, go.
ADAMA: What's she doing? TIGH: Starbuck's gonna take on all eight.
And get herself killed.
KAT: Hot Dog, where are you going? STARBUCK: Hot Dog, what are you doing? HOT
DOG: Got one! STARBUCK: Hot Dog! Get out of here! STARBUCK: Hot Dog, I told you
to get your ass home! HOT DOG: You said never to leave your leader.
STARBUCK: I also said never to disobey an order.
- I'm hit! - I got you, Hot Dog! We're going to make it through this.
Break right.
Now! [Thrilling instrumental music] She'll make it.
I just lost all three mains.
It's all right, Hot Dog.
You did good.
We're gonna be okay, I promise you.
At least one of us will.
STARBUCK: That about does it.
I think there's only one left.
Frack! STARBUCK: He's right on my tail, but I got it covered.
Starbuck's wireless and transponder just cut out.
ALERT ONE: Alert One, we spotted Hot Dog.
No ID or visual on Starbuck.
[Chuckles] Frack me! [Struggles and pants] [Theme music]
