Battlestar Galactica  >  Season 1  >  Litmus

Battlestar Galactica s01e06 Episode Script

Litmus

NARRATOR: Previously on Battlestar Galactica: [Dramatic instrumental music]
Sharon, get out of here! Where are you? Sharon! TYROL: Halt! No sudden moves.
Get on your knees and cross your ankles.
Now! I'm human.
I'm from Oasis.
It's a hamlet, public stop.
I'm out of Havoca City.
I'm not a Cylon! Don't leave me! SPEAKER: Attention, the Scorpia Traveller has
docked.
Any civilians currently boarding Galactica please proceed to security
checkpoint.
[Sinister instrumental music] Thank you.
SPEAKER: Flight Maintenance Crew Bravo report to Flight 3.
CORPORAL: Next.
Next.
MAN: Yes, okay.
TYROL: It's all clear? CALLY: I've got your back, Chief.
Thanks.
[Door closing] [Both moaning] [Boomer chuckling] - Anybody see you? - No.
I went through the hatch combing on C Causeway.
Good girl.
SPEAKER: Bravo team, EOD, stand by for munitions off-loading.
Hangar Bay 2.
[lntense instrumental music] You know, sometimes at work I try to conjure up
what your face looks like.
The curve of your lips the way your hair falls, how you smell.
You see my face every day.
Yeah, but not like this.
[Mysterious instrumental music] [Mysterious instrumental music intensifies]
Security, XO.
Send an armed detail to meet me in the midpoint promenade deck causeway, C
level.
Approach from the aft.
Repeat.
Approach from the aft.
Doral! [Dramatic instrumental music] [Dramatic instrumental music intensifies]
[Exclaiming] [Theme music] [Exclaiming in pain] What's the count? - Three dead.
13 injured.
- Did you get a good look at the bomber? - Yes.
- It was him, right? Yes.
I want to see the Master at Arms in my office in ten minutes.
A Cylon? HADRIAN: Eyewitness accounts state the bomber was a man.
The Cylons look like us now.
Like us? Yes, they appear human.
The flesh, the blood the whole thing.
The bomber was another copy of a man we knew as Doral posing as the Public
Relations Officer aboard this ship.
They've learned that there are multiple versions of the same Cylon.
I want you to open an investigation immediately.
I want to find out how that Cylon or any civilian - could break through our
security.
- There's been a string of security incidents aboard ship, sir.
The water tank explosion, the discovery of explosives aboard a Raptor - and now
this.
- Your point? [lntense instrumental music] I need a free hand.
The authority to follow evidence wherever it might lead without command review.
- Independent tribunal? - Yes, sir.
You'll get it.
HADRIAN: Thank you.
ADAMA: That will be all, Sergeant.
I also strongly recommend alerting the public to the Cylon threat.
If there are other copies of this man aboard the fleet we should find them
before they strike again.
I'll take that under advisement.
ADAMA: That will be all.
HADRIAN: Yes, sir.
Open to the public.
There's a can of worms.
Keeping silent hasn't helped us very much.
Maybe shining a light on the situation will make things pop up.
ADAMA: All right.
ADAMA: Hey.
I owe you one.
- Sir.
- Colonel.
Get me the President.
CALLY: Don't kink the line.
JAMMER: There, we've got it.
SOCINUS: Okay, let's go.
So who's first? How about me? - Hey, Chief.
- How's it going there, on top? - Hi.
- Come on.
Let's have it.
Come on.
TYROL: You people are the sorriest of the sorry.
TYROL: The dumbest of the dumb.
TYROL: The only thing you're making out of this is a one-way trip to sick bay
or the morgue.
Now, tonight, after night call one of you brings me twice this length of copper
tubing a spot heater and a CO2 scrubber.
I'll show you people how this is done.
TYROL: All right? Now get the hell out of here before I change my mind.
TYROL: Thank you.
Children.
NO.
6: He's very handsome.
DORAL: You really think so? BOOMER: She says that about everyone.
NO.
6: You disagree? He's attractive.
NO.
6: I hope you're more convincing than that with him.
If he wants to find me, he'll head north, toward Cylon forces he's already
seen.
If he wants to go alone, he'll go south, hoping to find another way off the
planet.
Either way, he won't make his move until nightfall.
DORAL: If he flees, he dies.
ROSLIN: There's going to be a huge reaction.
If there are any other Cylons aboard any of our ships, we need to find them.
If we enlist the help of the public, it'll make it a lot easier.
People are going to be shocked, angry, terrified, paranoid.
There is a price to be paid when asking for the public's help.
They're going to demand, at the very least, that someone be held accountable.
I'm setting up a tribunal.
That tribunal will have to come back to the public with a name.
Someone who screwed up.
We don't know if anybody screwed up.
A Cylon agent penetrated your security, killing three people.
At least one of your men or women screwed up.
Look, here's my view: Independent tribunal, openness, transparency, it all
sounds great.
But after 20 years in political office, I'm telling you these things have a way
of inflicting damage on the people you least expect.
I do not want a witch hunt on our hands.
HADRIAN: So, where were you at the time of the bombing? In my rack, reading
some trashy novel Socinus gave me.
- Did you see the Chief? - Chief? He was on the Hangar Deck going over some
paperwork, I think.
HADRIAN: How do you know that if you were in your rack? [Tense instrumental
music] I saw him right before I turned in.
I was with Cally playing Pyramid in the mess hall corridor.
HADRIAN: You sure? JAMMER: Yeah.
She's pretty good.
- Did you see the Chief? - Yeah, he was there.
I mean, not the whole time.
He dropped in, watched us play for a while.
Okay.
SOCINUS: I was on watch.
HADRIAN: Did you see the Chief? The Chief? No.
- He wasn't on the Hangar Deck? - No.
Wait.
Yeah.
Yeah, he was.
He came in, did some work on one of the Vipers that the Captain rides.
Thank you.
- Asleep in my rack.
- Sure about that? Positive.
I was asleep, Sergeant.
All right.
That'll be all for now.
Good afternoon and thank you for coming.
Please be seated.
I'm sure by now, word of the explosion on the Galactica has spread to the
entire fleet.
We offer our continued gratitude to the brave men and women aboard this mighty
ship.
In consultation with Commander Adama I have appointed an independent tribunal
to investigate the circumstances surrounding this explosion.
Also, in the interest of security and public safety I feel it is time to reveal
certain information that has until now remained a tightly-guarded secret.
This information was known only to myself, Commander Adama - and a few select
advisors.
- The cat's out of the bag.
The Cylons have the ability to mimic human form.
They look like us now.
[Crowd mutters in disbelie] ROSLIN: We have reason to believe that a Cylon
agent was responsible for the explosions aboard Galactica.
This man has been identified as a Cylon agent.
We believe him to be responsible for the bombing.
He evidently slipped aboard the Galactica with a civilian group killed a Marine
guard, stole the explosives and detonated them killing three members of the
crew and destroying himself.
ROSLIN: This man has also been identified as a Cylon.
And we now know that there are duplicates of each Cylon model.
Anyone seeing either of these two men at anytime, anywhere in the fleet should
immediately contact the Battlestar Galactica and the office of the President.
Now I'll take your questions.
[Reporters exclaiming together] They've known about this the whole time and
they tell us now? Cylon? - I mean, who's the Cylon now? - This is too much.
I don't even want to know this.
Excuse me, sir.
Will you come with us, please? BOOMER: What? Why? TYROL: What's going on,
Sergeant? HADRIAN: Chief, we need you to come along as well.
You're arresting the Chief? SOCINUS: Who's arresting him? - No one is under
arrest.
- What's all this? HADRIAN: Step back.
Lieutenant asked you a question, Sergeant.
A Tribunal has been convened to look into the Cylon penetration of our
defences.
It requires the presence of Lt.
Valerii and Chief Tyrol.
I am here to escort them to the Wardroom.
Sir.
[Tense instrumental music] Very well.
CRASHDOWN: Proceed.
HADRIAN: Thank you, sir.
Lieutenant, Chief, you'll come with me, please.
You're it till I get back.
Don't worry.
HADRIAN: Lt.
Valerii, where were you at the time of the explosion? I was in my rack.
Asleep.
HADRIAN: Did anyone see you, sir? BOOMER: I don't know.
I was asleep.
HADRIAN: Lieutenant is it true that you and the Chief are involved in a
romantic and physical relationship in violation of the Colonial Code of
Military Conduct? - I thought this was about - Just answer the question,
please.
Are you and the Chief involved in a relationship? No.
The XO ordered us to put a stop to it.
And so we did.
[Serious instrumental music] HADRIAN: Sir, can you testify as to the
whereabouts of Chief Petty Officer Tyrol at the time of the bombing? I have no
idea where he was.
- Thank you, sir.
- You're excused, Lieutenant.
But I am sure he had nothing to do with the bombing You are excused,
Lieutenant.
HADRIAN: Bring in the next witness, please.
HADRIAN: The testimony you give before this tribunal may be used to adjudicate
your guilt or innocence in the matter under investigation.
Do you understand? Yes.
HADRIAN: The matter being investigated is first how a Cylon, penetrated
Galactica's security system and second, whether one of Galactica's crew members
aided and abetted this crime through conspiracy and collusion with the Cylons.
Collusion with the Cylons? HADRIAN: Do you consent to give your testimony
freely without invoking your right to remain silent as provided for under the
23rd Article of Colonization? - I do.
- Then let's begin.
[Grave instrumental music] CALLY: They're going after the Chief.
JAMMER: They're going after the Cylons.
- What the hell does that mean? - Wake up.
The world's changed while you were asleep.
SOCINUS: Frak you.
Cylons look like people.
That means anyone.
Anyone.
- Not the Chief.
- How do you know? - I know.
- This is stupid.
You two just don't want to deal with reality.
JAMMER: You want to keep your heads buried in the sand.
That's exactly what the Cylons want.
For us to turn on each other.
CALLY: Start getting suspicious, paranoid.
SOCINUS: She's right.
If we don't believe in each other when the heat comes down, we're nothing.
That kind of thinking is over.
It's every man for himself now.
You better watch your backs.
HADRIAN: You had the mid-watch before the bombing, correct? Yes.
Would you please explain to the tribunal what you do on watch? TYROL: I walk
the perimeter of the Hangar Deck the tool rooms, storage facilities.
To make sure all hatches are sealed? TYROL: Yes.
That no unauthorised personnel is poking around where they shouldn't? That's
right.
And there was no one on the Hangar Deck that night.
HADRIAN: I believe that's what your log says.
What about the hatch combing for Causeway C? - Anybody see you? - No.
I went through the hatch combing on C Causeway.
HADRIAN: Your log indicates that all hatches and portals were locked and
sealed.
If that's what the log indicates, then that's the case.
Which would include the hatch combing for Causeway C? I don't know where the
Sergeant is going with this.
TYROL: But they're not related.
HADRIAN: What if I told you that I found the hatch open after the bombing? I
would say that I don't know how that's possible.
It's not just any hatch on the Hangar Deck.
It opens onto a causeway which leads directly to a small arms locker where a
Marine guard was found dead at the scene.
The locker was opened with the correct code.
Do you have the correct code to that locker, Chief? Yes, I do, as do dozens of
others, including the guard.
It's possible the Cylon forced the guard to open it before he killed him.
I want to take this opportunity to state that, that was an internal security
matter.
And this falls under the purview of the Master at Arms.
And the Master at Arms is Sergeant Hadrian.
Did Lt.
Valerii leave the hatch combing open last night? I have no idea who left the
hatch combing open last night.
Chief, were you doing paperwork at the time of the bombing? - No.
- Were you working on a Viper at that time? No.
Were you watching a pick-up game of Pyramid in the mess hall at the time of the
bombing? No! As I told you earlier today, I was asleep in my rack.
HADRIAN: Then why do I have three different statements from three of your
deckhands stating variously that they all saw you and you were anywhere but in
your rack? Chief Tyrol, where were you at the time of the bombing? [Tense
instrumental music] HADRIAN: Were you, in fact, meeting with a Cylon agent? I
exercise my right under Article 23.
By invoking the 23rd Article at this time, the tribunal will look on this as
further evidence of your guilt.
So I will ask you one last time.
Who were you with at the time of the bombing and was this person a Cylon agent?
HADRIAN: Your sworn statement indicates that you were on watch at the time of
the bombing and that you saw Chief Tyrol - work on one of the Vipers.
Is that true? - Yes, sir.
Specialist, can you explain to us why Chief Tyrol told us in his testimony that
he was in his rack asleep at the time of the bombing? [Stuttering] HADRIAN:
Speak up, Specialist.
SOCINUS: He said that? Did you see him or didn't you? HADRIAN: Specialist!
SOCINUS: No, I did not, sir.
So the Chief did not come to the Hangar Deck after all? I don't know.
I left my post.
Excuse me? I left my post, sir.
I ducked out to get a smoke.
I went to the galley to get some chow.
The Chief I mean, I don't know where he was.
I'm sure he was asleep in his rack just like he said.
You went to the galley? Yes, sir.
Did you go through the hatch combing on C Deck? Well, to get to the galley,
that would be the best way.
Yes, sir, I went through that hatch.
- Did you leave it open? - I'm not sure.
Yes, sir.
I think I did.
The Chief had nothing to do with it.
It was me.
I left my post and I left the hatch open.
It was me.
Just me.
You realise, that by leaving the hatch open, you allowed a Cylon to gain access
to the small arms locker? Yes, sir.
Specialist, did Chief Tyrol instruct you to leave the hatch open deliberately
as part of a conspiracy to allow the Cylon to gain access to the small arms
locker? The Chief is innocent.
He didn't do anything.
Specialist, did you leave the hatch open deliberately? Yes, sir.
Whatever happened, it was me.
Just me.
[Soft instrumental music] South.
You overestimated his willingness to risk himself for you.
He just doesn't love you.
Wait.
North.
Toward his love.
Seems you made an impression after all.
He's a good man.
He always does the right thing.
Are you prepared for the next step? Yes.
- Hello, Lieutenant.
- Doctor.
I brought you a cigar.
A recovery gift.
- How are you? - I'm good.
The food is good, company is better.
Yes, I just happened to be absolutely nowhere near sick bay.
BALTAR: I thought I would - see how you were doing.
- So, Doctor your super secret project's on C Deck, right? I'm not at liberty
to divulge exactly what I am doing on C Deck.
But you're more than welcome to pop by.
Once you're ambulatory.
- The bomber was on C Deck, right? - Yes, I know.
I heard the explosion.
- Very frightening.
- Do you think that's where he was headed? [Tense instrumental music] - I'm
sorry.
I didn't follow you.
- The Cylon bomber? Do you think that he was trying to blow up your project?
NO.
6: And you along with it? It's funny.
I hadn't thought of that.
Kind of hits you where you live, huh? Yes, it does, actually.
You get well soon.
BALTAR: They're trying to kill me.
Me, always me.
They're trying to destroy your work.
NO.
6: Destroying you is an added bonus.
BALTAR: But why? BALTAR: I don't understand.
Why are they trying to blow me up? BALTAR: You told me what to do.
BALTAR: I wouldn't be making this Cylon detector if it wasn't for you.
NO.
6: But I'm just in your head, Gaius.
They don't know about me or us or our life together.
How romantic.
I'm going to have to destroy that Cylon detector myself.
Blame the sabotage on Cylon agents.
That's what I'll tell Adama.
[Dramatic instrumental music] No, you won't.
You're gonna complete the project just like I told you.
Really? Would I? Or what? Don't make me angry, Gaius.
You wouldn't like me when I'm angry.
DORAL: Sharon.
NO.
6: Is that enough? [Slow instrumental music] No, Sharon wouldn't give up
without a much earned fight.
[Boomer grunting] [Fast-paced instrumental music] ADAMA: Did you read the
tribunal report? ROSLIN: Yes.
And I'm sorry to read that one of your men has been charged with conspiracy -
and collusion with a Cylon agent.
- Specialist Socinus.
But after reading the transcripts I have my doubts.
What about this other man, your Chief Tyrol, he took the 23rd? - What is that
about, do you think? - It's his right.
The courts have never held that invoking the right to remain silent can be used
as evidence of guilt.
You sound like a lawyer.
My father was a lawyer.
Civil liberties.
Let's set aside the legalities for a moment.
Obviously, you are defending your man.
I respect that, I do.
But he is hiding something.
Chief Tyrol has been under my command for over five years.
And if he had really wanted to take this ship down he could.
This is over.
[Door opening] [lntense instrumental music] Madam President, I'm gonna have to
call you right back.
What? I have orders to bring you before the tribunal, sir.
Let's go.
[Soothing instrumental music] [Suspenseful instrumental music] [Footsteps
echoing] [Dramatic instrumental music] [Grunting] HELO: It's okay.
BOOMER: Helo.
What's happening? HELO: Can you walk? BOOMER: I think so.
HELO: Come on.
I got you.
Okay.
Now we're even.
- I think we should go.
- Right.
Okay.
HELO: Come on.
It's going to be all right.
You're going to be just fine.
[Helo panting] HADRIAN: Commander Adama, when did you first learn the truth
about the Cylons? On Ragnar station.
Before we left.
And you chose to withhold this crucial information, sir? ADAMA: Yes.
HADRIAN: Why? I felt that to alarm the public, would only cause chaos and
panic.
But you also withheld the information from your own security detachment aboard
ship, sir.
Not knowing who to trust, I decided to keep the information compartmentalised
for the time being.
Sir, isn't it true that had we known that the Cylons appeared human different
security procedures would have been followed? Probably.
But I had to weigh the possible ramifications of both.
HADRIAN: Isn't it also true, sir, that had different procedures been followed -
the bombing may have been prevented? - That's speculative.
- I'm asking if it's possible.
- I know what you're asking, Sergeant.
I will not speculate as to what might have happened.
Do you personally believe that a Cylon agent planted explosives in the ship's
water tank? Yes.
Do you believe that there are Cylon agents aboard ship even as we speak? Yes, I
do.
HADRIAN: Sir, isn't it true that you knew that Lt.
Valerii and Chief Tyrol were having an illicit relationship in violation of
regulations? I don't see the relevance of this line of questioning, Sergeant.
The commander should bear in mind that my questions are not subject to the
Commander's review.
Why did you allow the relationship to continue knowing it was against
regulations? I'm a soft touch.
Sir, are you aware that both Lt.
Valerii and Chief Tyrol have been implicated as possibly being in collusion
with the Cylons? I'm aware of the allegations.
Where are you going with this? I will ask the questions, sir.
Isn't it true that by allowing their relationship to continue in violation of
regulations you may have made it possible for two Cylon collaborators to
compromise the safety and security of this ship? [Exhaling] We're done here.
Excuse me, sir, but my questions are not finished.
You've lost your way, Sergeant.
You've lost sight of the purpose of the law to protect its citizens, not
persecute them.
Whatever we are, whatever is left of us.
We're better than that.
ADAMA: Now these proceedings are closed.
You'll be transported back to your ships, and we appreciate your help.
MYSON: Commander.
This is an independent board.
You have no authority to close our inquiry.
This is a witch hunt.
I will not have it aboard my ship.
Corporal of the guard! Restrain the Commander and return him back to the
witness chair.
Your orders are to escort Sergeant Hadrian back to her quarters and keep her in
confinement until further notice.
Make your choice, son.
Sergeant Hadrian, you'll come with us, please.
MAN: She's just about to speak.
WOMAN: Yes, I tried to get an interview with her myself.
Good evening, have a seat.
The investigation into the suicide bombing aboard Galactica and how it was
allowed to occur has come to a close.
You are all aware that the bomber was a Cylon agent.
The tribunal has determined that the Cylon gained access to the explosives by
going through a hatch door in the Hangar Deck of the ship.
This door was left open due to negligence of one of the ship's crewmen.
His name is Specialist Socinus.
He has confessed to lying under oath and dereliction of duty in a time of war.
He has been stripped of his rank and confined to the Brig.
At this point, we have no reason to believe that there were any other parties
responsible.
Now I'll take your questions.
You, sir.
TYROL: Commander, permission to enter? ADAMA: What is it, Chief? TYROL: Thank
you, sir.
Sir, I believe that Socinus I believe that his confession was a lie.
I think that he's covering for me.
For you? I think that he's doing this out of a sense of misplaced loyalty to
me.
Somewhere in this there's truth.
Care to take me to it? Sir, I was with Lt.
Valerii at the time of the bombing.
The Deck gang, they all knew it.
They've known all along.
TYROL: They're trying to cover for me.
They started lying.
Socinus I think that he thinks he's helping protect me by taking a fall like
this.
You don't really know if he was on duty or not, do you? Commander, he's
innocent.
I know that much.
I should be in the Brig.
Well, that's a fact.
You should be in the Brig.
Commander, this isn't right.
- You can't let an innocent kid - I can't? [lntense instrumental music] What I
can't do is I can't let someone that wears this uniform get on the witness
stand and lie under oath.
And that's what your man did.
He either lied the first time or he lied the second time.
And it doesn't matter.
He's guilty and he'll pay the price.
ADAMA: You? You'll pay a different price.
You'll have to walk out on that Hangar Deck every day knowing that one of your
men is in the Brig because you couldn't keep your fly zipped.
You're the most experienced, noncommissioned officer we have left.
You keep my planes flying.
I need my planes to fly.
Dismissed.
Sir.
TYROL: Sharon, no.
BOOMER: What? Sharon, we're done.
It's over.
- What do you mean it's over? - I love you.
I really do.
I'm sorry.
Wait a minute.
BOOMER: I deserve more of an explanation than that.
[Sombre instrumental music] Sure.
One of my men is in the Brig.
He confessed to a crime he didn't commit to protect me, to protect us.
There can be no more "us.
" No more secrets, no more lies, that's it.
It's over.
I can't believe you can just turn your back on us.
I put everything on the line for you.
Everything.
I cover for you, I protect you.
TYROL: I risk my career, my freedom, my integrity, for what? [Screaming] So
some innocent kid, one of my kids, can take the fall for me? TYROL: No! We are
not worth that.
Okay.
Right.
I guess I'll see you around.
One more thing.
Did you leave the hatch combing open last night? What? Did you leave the hatch
combing open last night? What are you saying? BOOMER: That I helped the Cylon?
TYROL: I didn't say anything.
I'm just asking a question.
I think I deserve an answer.
You have the only answer you're ever gonna get.
[Theme music]
