Battlestar Galactica  >  Season 1  >  The Hand of
God

Battlestar Galactica s01e10 Episode Script

The Hand of God

NARRATOR: Previously on Battlestar Galactica.
[Dramatic instrumental music] COTTLE: Your doctor back on Caprica was right.
It's too damn late to operate, the cancer is too far advanced.
Have you ever heard of Chamalla extract? It means that you're still acting like
you're everyone's best friend.
We're not friends, you're the CAG.
The Chief wanted me to kick your ass out of bed.
But, clearly, you still need the rest.
Take your time.
No rush.
I need new pilots.
And I want you to train them.
I can do that.
They slipped through.
How's that possible? NO.
6: She thinks she loves him.
Now that she can't live without him.
- Bothers you, doesn't it? - We'll get them in the end.
I can assure you that fuel shortage is our number one priority.
Galactica has ships scouring the nearby star systems and we can anticipate that
they will soon find tylium.
Hamilton? Madam President, tylium ore is extremely rare.
If we don't find any, how long before the fleet runs out of fuel? That all
depends on how well we conserve.
Isn't it a fact, Ma'am President, that we only have enough for two more jumps?
Yes.
That is correct.
Do we have a contingency plan if we run out of tylium? [Reporters murmuring
questioningly] [lntense instrumental music] We would If that were to happen we
would use our last fuel to jump to the nearest planetary system.
And pray we're lucky enough to find a habitable planet.
Madam President, without fuel to take even the most basic evasive manoeuvres No
REPORTER 1:wouldn't we be like ducks in a Cylon shooting gallery? Yes, we
would.
[Snake hissing fiercely] ROSLIN: I'm I'm sorry.
That is all for now.
[lntense instrumental music intensifies] [Reporters murmuring quizzically]
REPORTER 2: She did not do this.
CRASHDOWN: [On radio] Commencing sweep 87 of asteroid field.
BOOMER: Any luck? [Sighing] How many times are you gonna ask me that, Boomer?
Well, until you find some tylium ore.
Don't you want to be a hero to Ensign Davis? [Exclaims in exasperation] You
haven't noticed how she always sits next to you in the mess? [Mimicking Davis]
"How's it going, Crash? You look so cute.
" Damn it.
There's so much debris in this system, the dradis is useless.
This is going to take 100 years.
BOOMER: I heard about how you found water, how you saved the whole place
[Computer beeping] [Exclaiming incredulously] Jackpot, Boomer.
That asteroid dead ahead is a mountain of tylium.
[Exclaiming excitedly] CRASHDOWN: Check it.
Thank the Gods! We're heroes.
Yeah.
"We're heroes.
" It never fails.
Great, the second that I score, the bus driver jumps in and takes the credit.
- Okay, so who's the one that we suggest - What? Cylons.
[Tense instrumental music] The rock's crawling with them.
We are well and truly fracked.
Only tylium within 12 light years and we've got to kiss it goodbye.
Yeah, along with our asses if we don't get out of here fast.
[Tense instrumental music intensifies] [Theme music] TIGH: It figures the
Cylons would be sitting on the only source of fuel within our reach.
Still staking out every waterhole in the desert.
Only this time it's a lake, enough tylium to last us a couple of years.
APOLLO: This must be some kind of conveyor belt to get the ore from the mine
here into this cracking plant here.
GAETA: A refinery this far from their home world? APOLLO: Why not? They need
fuel as much as we do.
GAETA: Now they've got it.
And enough firepower to keep it.
APOLLO: All right.
So we forget this asteroid, find another source.
You can bet your ass the Cylons will be guarding that one, too.
We send the Raptors out farther.
Find a source they haven't reached yet.
TIGH: We'll use up all our fuel doing it.
How're we going to get our refinery ship We take the tylium from the Cylons.
[Tense instrumental music] With all respect, this is hardly a time to attack a
superior force.
This is exactly the time.
We know where they are.
They don't know where we are.
We'll catch them with their pants down.
If we fail? End of game.
So we don't fail.
STARBUCK: When the missile gets close enough you'll be pulling maybe 7 G's.
But to catch you, the bastard's gonna have to pile on 40 to 60.
Its guidance system can't hack it, and it'll miss most of the time.
Exactly how often is "most of the time"? It depends on your judgment, and how
well you pray.
Attention on deck.
ADAMA: As you were.
Lt.
Thrace, can I have a word? STARBUCK: Of course.
Take five, guys.
STARBUCK: What's up? ADAMA: How are they doing? Wobbly as newborn colts, but
they're getting stronger.
That's good.
Got a job for you.
Rumour mill has it that you're planning an op.
Rumour mill's right for a change.
Capt.
Adama and Col.
Tigh are working up the plan now and I need some serious out-of-the-box
thinking.
Out-of-the-box is where I live.
I've been taking Chamalla for a medical condition.
So what have you seen? It started out as dreams of the Cylon that we had
executed.
But I had the dreams before we captured him.
- The images were - Prescient? ROSLIN: Uncanny.
And now I'm seeing things while I'm awake.
- What kind of things? - Snakes.
There were snakes crawling all over my podium during a press conference.
- How many? - About a dozen.
[Slow instrumental music] You're kidding, right? You read Pythia, and now
you're having me on.
No.
- Who is Pythia? - One of the oracles in the sacred scrolls.
Pythia wrote about the exile and the rebirth of the human race.
And the Lords anointed a leader to guide the caravan of the heavens to their
new homeland.
And unto the leader they gave a vision of serpents, numbering two and ten as a
sign of things to come.
Pythia wrote that? She also wrote that the new leader suffered a wasting
disease and would not live to enter the new land.
But you're not dying.
Are you? APOLLO: And that will allow the attack force to wipe out these
installations here.
Now, if we do it right, there won't be any Cylon survivors.
APOLLO: And the asteroid will be ours.
ADAMA: What do you think, Starbuck? It's a textbook perfect plan, which is why
it won't work.
TIGH: Of course.
We bow to your vast experience in strategic planning.
Refresh my memory.
What year was it that you graduated from war college? What's the matter,
married life not all you expected? Enough.
Both of you.
We're not going to win this one by the book.
I want Starbuck in here because she's not weighed down by conventional
thinking.
All due respect, gentlemen, we're not as crazy as she is.
Okay.
So what would you do differently? To start jumping Galactica in behind the
planetoid to hide it from the Cylon base is an obvious move.
You think they'll be covering that blind spot with recon patrols? I would, if I
were them.
What we need to do is make their patrols part of our plan, you know? Make their
tactics work for us.
Here's what I would do: [Rhythmic drumbeat] At position code Deacon we'll need
three civilian freighter ships to use as decoys.
Which means those passengers will have to be relocated to other ships which are
already overcrowded.
Yes, if you approve.
STARBUCK: The decoy ships will jump into the enemy star system at extreme radar
range from the Cylon asteroid.
Galactica will jump here close enough to launch its Vipers at the base.
Soon as the decoy freighters arrive in the system, they'll break wireless
silence.
They'll be posing as a mining fleet coming after the tylium and pretend to be
unaware of the Cylon presence.
STARBUCK: The Cylons will hear the messages and send a force of Raiders after
them.
This will leave the base relatively undefended.
We'll have Raptors pre-positioned to keep an eye on the Cylons.
STARBUCK: When the Cylons move toward the decoys Galactica's Vipers will come
in from behind, and obliterate the base.
APOLLO: Without the base, they'll be unable to rearm, refuel.
We'll mop them up, and then we'll take the tylium.
What happens to the crews on the civilian decoy ships? They'll keep their FTL
drives spooled up, and jump clear the first sign of trouble.
How many casualties do you anticipate? lt'll cost us.
[Rhythmic drumbeat continues] If you succeed, what's to prevent the Cylons from
coming back with reinforcements? ADAMA: Nothing.
ADAMA: But if we get a chance to knock out that base it will buy us some time.
ROSLIN: Why? If you keep running from the schoolyard bully he keeps on chasing
you.
But when you turn around and stop and you punch him really hard in a sensitive
spot he'll think twice about coming back again.
So it's either this, or run out of fuel and be annihilated.
Sometimes you have to roll the hard six.
Well, the freighters are yours.
Good hunting, everyone.
ADAMA: Operation starts in 48 hours.
TIGH: This is our target.
BALTAR: A Cylon base? And you're the Cylon expert.
TIGH: We need to destroy their military facilities.
Without harming the tylium ore under the surface.
TIGH: Exactly.
A nuke would destroy the Cylons.
But the radiation would render the ore inert, unusable.
I see your dilemma.
Well, you're in luck, you know.
BALTAR: Refined tylium contains tremendous enthalpy to the order of half a
billion mega joules per kilo.
Subjected to right heat and compression, say, from a conventional warhead you
should get a suitably devastating explosion without the radioactive fallout.
All we have to do is hit the right spot.
Specifically, you must hit the staging tanks for the refined tylium precursor.
It's a lot more unstable than the fuel itself.
And where would they be? [Dramatic instrumental music] I need your advice on
this one.
I'm flattered, Gaius but I don't know the first thing about tylium refineries.
Neither do I.
Oh, come on, you must have an inkling - where I should tell them to bomb? - No.
NO.
6: But God does.
BALTAR: Oh, good.
I suppose God doesn't want me to destroy the base because he's the Cylon God.
Right? God doesn't take sides.
He only wants your love.
NO.
6: Open your heart to him, and he'll show you the way.
It'd be a lot simpler if he came out and told me.
You must remember to surrender your ego.
Remain humble.
BALTAR: If you ask me God could do with cleaning his ears out.
Then he'd hear what I have to say.
- Relax your neck.
- Why? What are you going to do? NO.
6: I said relax.
BALTAR: All right, but please don't STARBUCK: Where would the staging tanks be,
Doctor? [Exclaiming dreamily] There.
Right there.
BALTAR: Hit any one of them and the place will go up like a three kiloton bomb.
[Ominous instrumental music] Well done.
Forceful, so decisive, delivered with such lan.
He didn't speak to me.
God didn't speak to me.
I was totally lying.
I just picked that spot at random.
He doesn't always speak in words, Gaius.
So the fate of the entire human race depends upon my wild guess.
TRAINER: Attention on deck.
ADAMA: As you were.
How's the knee, Starbuck? lt'll be ready.
I'm not missing this party.
[Exhaling deeply] Apollo's leading the strike force.
You'll have to sit this one out.
- I'm the best pilot that you have.
- Not right now.
In combat, you got to pull 6, 7 G's.
Doc says your knee won't take it.
- Well, then he's wrong.
- Is he? A Viper thruster pedal requires this much force to activate.
[Grunting] Now you're on your attack run.
They launch their missiles so you've got to jam that pedal into the firewall
and hold a 6 G turn for 10 seconds or you die.
[Tense instrumental music] ADAMA: 10, 9, 8 [Starbuck gasping in pain] This is
only 3 G's, Starbuck.
Not 6.
I'm sorry.
It's a tough one.
But you're staying home.
STARBUCK: Keep your ingress low and fast.
Use the terrain to stay hidden till the last second.
Make sure you give the flak suppression unit enough time so they can weaken
defences.
APOLLO: You don't think I'm up to this? STARBUCK: Of course I do.
You'll be fine.
Look, you're worried that I'm not gonna pull it out of the fire with some
high-risk retina-detaching move the way Starbuck would.
Look, Kara, I'm sorry you're not suiting up.
'Cause everyone would feel so much better, me included if you were riding along
with us.
But this isn't an ego trip.
This is my job.
And don't think for one moment that I will not get it done.
I hope so.
Because we've got one shot.
Don't frack it up by over-thinking.
[Suspenseful instrumental music] HELO: Nice thing about being on the run after
a nuclear war nobody left to complain if we hide out in their barn or raid
their pantry while you're on your way to steal a ship, and get off the planet.
- It's odd, isn't it? - What? That we haven't seen a single living human being
since the one you shot when you rescued me.
We're still alive.
Why nobody else? BOOMER: Probably holed up in the fallout shelters or
something.
Two ways out and a lovely view.
What could be better? A feather bed with a silk comforter.
HELO: You hungry? BOOMER: I don't know.
What do we got? HELO: Peanut butter baked beans, corn How about some chilli?
[Boomer vomiting] A simple "no" would do.
Sharon, have you been taking your anti-radiation meds? I think it was those
cold beans we had this afternoon.
- You okay now? - Yeah.
How far you figure to Delphi? Eight, maybe ten days if we move fast.
If we start early, we can be there in no time.
[Sombre instrumental music] Can't sleep? I couldn't either before a big op.
The Mark II.
Good ship.
ADAMA: Got me out of a lot of tough scrapes.
ADAMA: I've got something for you.
It belonged to your grandfather.
ADAMA: My mum bought it for him when he was in law school.
[Sentimental instrumental music] You see the engraving on it? Yeah, I can
barely make it out, but He was a better father than I was.
Dad used to carry that into court cases.
Claimed he never lost unless he left it behind.
So you're worried, too? About what? You know, sometimes it feels like the whole
ship thinks Starbuck would do better.
I don't.
How can you be so sure? Because you're my son.
[Sentimental instrumental music swells] ADAMA: Get some rest.
You're going to need it.
Dad I'll bring it back.
You'd better, or I'll kick your ass.
It's a good lighter.
[Exhaling deeply] [Thunder rumbling] Sharon.
Wake up.
HELO: What the frack! You killed her BOOMER: Let me see.
[Footsteps pounding] We gotta go.
Right now.
Wait a minute.
I saw her on my lap.
I saw her blood spill on my lap.
Let's move, mister.
[Dramatic instrumental music] - What the hell is going on? - I don't know.
We'll figure it out later.
Jump complete, sir.
Dradis reports nothing but hash.
Just as we expected.
Can't see a thing.
We are now within launch range of the Cylon base.
OFFICER 1: [On radio] Constellation jump complete on station, point Deacon.
Initiate search pattern, Delta.
OFFICER 2: [On radio] Ore flight Bravo.
Delta, Wilco.
OFFICER 3: Ore flight Nebula, Delta initiated.
The ball's in play.
You can bet they heard that.
Now they'll try to locate the decoys.
And when they do? If they take the bait, all hell breaks loose.
- Until then? - We wait.
BOOMER: Galactica, Boomer.
Tally, 90 plus, headed Deacon.
[On radio] Speed, 250.
[Ships whizzing] APOLLO: [On radio] The Cylons have seen the freighter.
They're en route to intercept it.
They took the bait.
- Mr.
Gaeta, launch Strike Force 1.
- Aye, sir.
D, launch strike force one.
Attention.
Pilots, man your planes.
[On PA system] Pilots, man your planes.
[Alarm sounding] [Tense instrumental music] - How hard did they bite? -
Boomer's report said 90 plus.
They've launched most of their fighter force.
[Tense instrumental music] LAUNCH OFFICER: Give them hell, sir.
Firing.
[Gripping instrumental music] Attack forces away.
I just hope that Lee can Lee isn't the problem.
You should take a good look at yourself.
I had to go through the same transition.
When you're in the cockpit, you're in control.
It's hard to give it up.
It would just be a lot easier if I was flying with them.
All you can do now is wait, and hope you didn't make any mistakes.
I never wanted this kind of responsibility.
The Cylons never asked us what we wanted.
Welcome to the big leagues.
[Sober instrumental music] CRASHDOWN: [On radio] Galactica, Crashdown.
Tally, 50 plus on an intercept course.
Repeat.
50 plus inbound.
What's that mean? It means that a Cylon patrol spotted our attack force.
The base sent out 50 more Raiders to intercept.
Fifty Raiders? That means we're outnumbered now 5-to-1? Weren't the decoys
supposed to take care of that? - The Cylons were too smart for that.
- Frack.
Estimated time to strike intercept, 2 minutes.
[Tense instrumental music] FIREBALL: Fireball multiple bandits, left 10 high,
range 40.
Weapons free.
Committing.
[Weapons firing] Hot Dog, visual tally, press.
Hot Dog, break right.
[Explosions] [Firing continues] Fireball, your six.
[Alarm beeping] I'm hit.
Man eject.
FIREBALL: [On radio] Stop! BUZZER: Deadbolt, Spinner.
Two bandits closing your right side.
SPINNER: No joy! [Loud explosion] [Spinner screaming] [Ship whizzing] HOT DOG:
[On radio] Galactica, Hot Dog.
Heavily engaged.
Mission outcome doubtful.
- This sounds fracking awful.
- They're getting cut to pieces out there.
BUZZER: Get out of there! Move! BUZZER: [On radio] Deadbolt, right vertical,
now! DEADBOLT: Diamond, get a shot.
Get him off me.
Mr.
Gaeta, abort Strike 1.
DUALLA: Strike One, Galactica.
Return to base.
Repeat.
Abort your mission, and return to base.
[Tense instrumental music] STUBB: [On radio] Galactica, Stubb.
Cylon strike force is turning away from Deacon and inbound to Galactica.
OPERATOR: Noting Raiders inbound.
The Cylons heard our transmission recall, didn't they? Does that mean the first
wave of Raiders is ignoring the decoys, and is coming after us? That's exactly
what it means.
[Tense instrumental music intensifies] BALTAR: So, when are we going to launch
the reserve Vipers to defend Galactica? There are no reserve Vipers.
Everything is on the board already.
Now we play for all the marbles.
Starbuck, it's your plan.
Mr.
Gaeta will you please tell D to get on the scrambler and inform Apollo the back
door is open? Aye, Lieutenant.
GAETA: D, please send a scrambler to Capt.
Apollo.
Message reads, "The back door is open.
" Apollo, Galactica.
Back door is open.
Godspeed, Apollo.
[lntense instrumental music] [Ship humming] [lntense instrumental music swells]
Lt.
Thrace, why didn't you tell me we had another attack force hidden in the
freighters? STARBUCK: We ADAMA: It was my decision.
I routinely restrict tactical details to those who need to know.
Old habits die hard.
So you still might pull this off? ADAMA: If Dr.
Baltar's target information is correct.
And whether we get blown to pieces by those Cylon Raiders heading toward us
right now.
Speaking of which, I'm needed in CIC.
[Suspenseful instrumental music] [Electronic beeping] Initial point in 5
seconds.
Flak suppression unit cleared hot.
APOLLO: [On radio] Okay, let's do this.
Come on, Lee.
It's all on you.
[Tense instrumental music] Incoming! [Gripping instrumental music] APOLLO: [On
radio] Weapons free.
By the numbers, people.
Target acquired.
Tone and lock.
KAT: [On radio] Firing.
Tone and lock.
Firing.
What's got into these fracking missiles? Come on.
They're jamming the guidance systems.
APOLLO: Strike two, Apollo.
Then we get close enough so we don't need the guidance systems.
APOLLO: We'll have to blow this thing manually.
Wilco, Apollo.
Rolling in.
[Gripping instrumental music continues] Chuckles! [Alarm blaring] Oh, frack.
Chuckles bought it.
He's going down! [Stepchild screaming] KAT: [On radio] Now they've got our
attack axis zeroed in.
There's no way to fracking get close.
There's gotta be.
APOLLO: We've got to get out of this flak.
Let's get down below deck, down where the target is.
I've got an idea.
I'm gonna take a closer look.
[Dramatic instrumental music] Commander on deck.
ADAMA: As you were.
The first wave of Cylons will be on us in three minutes.
Notify the Strike 1 Vipers that they can stop running and blast those bastards
to hell.
DUALLA: Yes, sir.
PILOT 1: Attacking Cylon fighters.
PILOT 2: Target acquired, tone and lock.
[Climactic instrumental music] Oh, no, don't do this, Lee.
The conveyor tunnel's clear.
I'm going through it.
You're out of your fracking mind, Apollo.
What's going on? GAETA: Captain Apollo's flying into the conveyor tunnel hoping
it will lead him to the refinery.
BALTAR: Has he gone raving mad? There's no way to ensure it does anything of
the kind.
[Dramatic instrumental music] Come on, keep it together, Lee.
Oh, lords.
[Apollo grunts] [Thunderous roaring] APOLLO: Okay, I'm through the tunnel.
They can't get a firing solution on me.
[Suspenseful instrumental music] APOLLO: There you are.
[Chanting] Okay.
I've got you.
I've got you.
[Fast-paced instrumental music] [Exclaims in disbelie] Galactica, Apollo.
APOLLO: [On radio] Mission accomplished.
Yes.
[Starbuck whoops] [All cheering excitedly] [Pounding instrumental music] You
can tell Dr.
Baltar he was right on the money.
It's one hell of a fireworks show.
And there's plenty more for us back in the canyon once this place is history.
[Cheering continues] GAETA: Congratulations, Doctor, it worked.
It did.
[Heroic instrumental music] It worked.
I'm sorry, Madam President, I'm sorry.
No need to apologise.
Thanks to you, we have enough fuel to last us a few years.
[Both chuckling in relie] DUALLA: Commander, Strike 1 reports inbound Cylons
are bugging out.
Request permission to go after them, sir.
- Tell our people to pursue and destroy them.
- Affirmative.
Strike 1, tear them up.
[Heroic music] [All cheering] STARBUCK: Apollo, you magnificent bastard.
That was one hell of a piece of flying and I couldn't have done it better
myself.
APOLLO: I'm sorry, I didn't hear you.
I said that I couldn't have done it better myself.
Well, thank you.
I had my doubts.
So did I.
I wasn't sure that crazy ass plan of yours would even possibly work.
STARBUCK: You deserve this.
DAVIS: Crash.
[Crashdown exclaims in surprise] [Starbuck laughs] [Heroic music continues] NO.
6: Have you read the Pythian Prophecy, Gaius? Not since the 6th grade.
BALTAR: I can't say ancient history is my favourite subject.
NO.
6: You should have paid closer attention.
BALTAR: To what? "All of this has happened before.
All of this will happen again.
" Everyone knows that verse.
What are you getting at? [Suspenseful instrumental music] Remember this one?
"Led by serpents numbering two and ten.
" The Vipers, they're the serpents? There's a later verse, Gaius.
You should read it.
"Though the outcome favoured the few "it led to a confrontation at the home of
the gods.
" [Ominous instrumental music] Are you telling me that God guided my finger to
that target for some arcane scriptural purpose? You are part of God's plan,
Gaius.
So God wanted me to destroy the Cylon base.
You did well.
You gave yourself over to Him.
Yes, I suppose I did.
There's really no other logical explanation for it.
- I was - Am.
[Ominous instrumental music continues] I am an instrument of God.
[Theme music]
