Battlestar Galactica  >  Season 1  >  Kobol's Last
Gleaming (1)

Battlestar Galactica s01e12 Episode Script

Kobol's Last Gleaming (1)

NARRATOR: Previously on Battlestar Galactica.
[Dramatic instrumental music] STARBUCK: Like my new toy? It's my very own Cylon
Raider.
Boy, when you take a souvenir, you don't screw around.
Congratulations, Doctor.
You've just uncovered your very first Cylon.
She probably doesn't know.
If something happened to you I wouldn't know how to deal with it.
I feel the same way.
BOOMER: I'm a Cylon.
Helo, come with me.
Helo.
Helo, come with me! ADAMA: New piece of equipment that just appeared in CIC.
OFFICER: He had this when we found him.
Send it to Galactica.
The lab can look at it.
It's a Cylon device.
I'll continue to take the Chamalla.
It has other benefits.
The hallucinations? You're going to find Kobol.
Birthplace of us all.
He says we're gonna find Kobol, and that it's gonna lead us to Earth.
[Solemn instrumental music] You all right? [Solemn instrumental music
continues] You all right? HELO: Stop! Don't come any closer.
[Solemn instrumental music continues] Just do it.
STARBUCK: Oh, Lee! BOOMER: Oh, God.
PA SYSTEM: Attention.
Pass the word for Lt.
Valerii.
Lt.
Valerii, report to the Ready Room for a pre-flight briefing.
[Solemn instrumental music continues] [Door closing] You don't lose control.
Thanks.
No.
You got to lose control.
Let your instincts take over.
I thought we were just sparring.
That's why you don't win.
[Solemn instrumental music continues] [Theme music] [Mechanical whirring]
[Computer beeping] ROSLIN: The doctor said I have six months at the outside.
He said the cancer's moved into my lymphatic system.
Aggressively moved in.
I want you to hear me on this.
You made a true believer out of me.
Strange as that sounds, considering.
But I believe.
I know you're the one to lead us to our salvation.
You are going to guide us to Earth.
Then we better find it soon.
- I'm out.
- Like it's yours.
- I picked up your five.
- Frankly, I don't care.
No, thank you, Doctor, I have a watch later.
APOLLO: Crashdown hits.
Davis? CRASHDOWN: What? CRASHDOWN: A little bit of this.
A little bit of that.
APOLLO: You guys always play this slow? CRASHDOWN: What did you say? CRASHDOWN:
Don't distract me.
APOLLO: Uncanny, I know.
All right, 20, I call.
And I raise you another 30.
You can't compete with me.
I always win.
I'm sorry.
NO.
6: Never seen you like this, Gaius.
It's disappointing somehow.
Common.
So sorry to disappoint you.
BALTAR: Disappoint you all.
Thirty.
And I call it.
GAETA: What do you got, buddy? - Absolutely nothing.
- Not bad, Crash.
But not compared to that.
DUALLA: Oh! APOLLO: You are APOLLO: No! DUALLA: You win every time.
BALTAR: Sorry, I have to do it.
BALTAR: Very sorry to disappoint you.
STARBUCK: There's a card game GAETA: Hey.
She's back on her feet, ladies and gentlemen.
- How are you feeling? - Hey, Gaius.
STARBUCK: Good.
BALTAR: Mr.
Vice President, if you don't mind, Lt.
Thrace.
Some level of decorum must be maintained, or is it a pirate ship you're
running? No.
Just a Battlestar, sir.
GAETA: All right, let's play.
Would you like to play? Maybe you'd like to sit next to Capt.
Adama? Sure, Kara.
Why don't you pull up a pew? No, that's okay, Lee.
I've got things to do.
BALTAR: Nothing's wild.
Here we go.
ROSLIN: All right, currency.
While bartering will continue for the foreseeable future we do have a system in
place now to take the economy back to a currency-based standard.
NO.
6: Do you love her? Did you ROSLIN: Dr.
Baltar if something should happen to me, it is vital that you comprehend and
are familiar with the political structures beginning to fall into place here.
- Do you understand this? - Answer me.
Yes, of course I understand.
My answer is no.
No, I don't think I can handle this right now.
BALTAR: The intricacies of the bureaucracy, I can't get my head around.
This which, with all due respect, Madam President you have spent your entire
political career learning to understand.
More to the point how you could think that my head could be turned so quickly
by a new thing it just astounds me.
How did you seriously think I could cope with this kind of responsibility? NO.
6: I don't believe you.
You're a genius, are you not? BALTAR: Well, quite frankly, I don't give a
flying frack whether you believe me or not.
All right? Because I've had it.
I am tired of being pushed and prodded around like I'm some kind of toy.
- I'm not your plaything.
- Plaything? I don't work for you! And quite frankly, I don't have to sit here
anymore and take this kind of abuse from either of you! You either! Either in
here, either in there.
Wherever it is, I don't need to take it.
- I love you, Gaius.
- Do me a favour.
NO.
6: Yeah? I think perhaps you need a break from this.
You're right.
We need a break.
I'd like to be alone if you don't mind.
[Screams in pain] NO.
6: How can you love her, Gaius? BALTAR: I don't.
You can't lie to me, I know everything you know.
That's lovely.
Thank you.
Did you Did you want something in particular this time? I thought you should
know that it's not safe to remain on Galactica.
What are you talking about? It's a surprise.
Tell me, what is it? What is it? Is it a bomb? Another Cylon bomb, right? Is it
an agent? Is a Cylon agent about to be activated? Tell me! BOOMER: Galactica,
this is Raptor 1 preparing to jump to Sector 728.
Let's hope we find some supplies out there.
TIGH: Roger that.
Good hunting out there.
Crash, counter our spinner? Fuel drive's spun up and ready.
Jump in five, four, three, two, one.
CRASHDOWN: Whoa, baby! [System beeping] Frack me! [Beeping continues] Gaeta,
the fracking idiot.
You can't plan a jump that close to a planet.
What if we jumped into it? It was great.
It's fine.
We made it.
We're cool.
CRASHDOWN: Are you seeing this? BOOMER: Yeah.
[Solemn instrumental music] CRASHDOWN: Oceans.
Continents.
No.
Let me at this thing.
Okay.
Atmosphere reads as: Nitrogen, oxygen.
Looks like enough CO2 for green leafy things.
I'm getting excited here, Boomer.
Boomer, this could be it.
This could be the big one.
This is the little planet that solves all our problems.
Boomer? Do you think this is Earth? No.
It's not Earth.
It's more important than that.
[Thunder rumbling] Doesn't really work as well as before, huh? You know, I do
get cold.
There's some things you should know, Helo.
Don't call me that.
You're not even Sharon.
You're not even human.
So don't act like you know me because you don't! But I am Sharon! And that's
part of what you need to understand! Sharon was a friend of mine! Whatever
twisted thing you are, you are not Sharon! You got that? The only thing I want
from you is a way off this fracked up world.
That's it! APOLLO: Going hunting? I'm adding a gunnery run to the jump test
tomorrow.
See if our boy can shoot anything with our ammo.
So it's a boy now? STARBUCK: I changed my mind.
APOLLO: You ever wonder why everyone calls it a she, but to you, it's a he?
It's fascinating, Lee.
You should write a paper.
It's not really my scene.
I'm not as smart as, say, Dr.
Baltar.
APOLLO: How is the Vice President, by the way? I don't know.
Haven't seen him.
So he's a "love them and leave them" kind of guy, I guess.
I guess.
APOLLO: Ships just pass in the night.
STARBUCK: Yup.
APOLLO: Didn't mean a thing.
STARBUCK: Nope.
Just bored.
Looking for something to do.
So fracking the Vice President seemed like a great way to waste some time.
- You want something from me? - Not a thing.
- I don't owe you anything.
- You don't owe me anything.
Because I'm just a CAG, and you're just a pilot.
- Right.
- A pilot that can't keep her pants on! Right.
It's just like old times, Kara.
Like when you got drunk and couldn't keep your hands off the major from
wherever STARBUCK: God! Why did you do it, Kara? Just tell me why.
Because I'm a screw-up, Lee.
Try and keep that in mind.
BILLY: Commander Adama is sending out another Raptor to conduct an aerial
survey of this planet.
BILLY: It appears to have suffered some sort of calamity but it could actually
be inhabitable.
BILLY: Aerial survey shows evidence of at least one city on the surface.
BILLY: It was obviously abandoned long ago.
ELOSHA: How old are the ruins? We won't know for sure until we send a ground
team but the initial estimates have it on the order of approximately 2,000
years.
That's around the time the 13 Tribes first left Kobol.
ROSLIN: Let me see.
Ruins? What ruins? This is an inhabited city.
Look at the buildings.
Buildings? ROSLIN: Look.
ELOSHA: What did you see? Tell me, Laura.
[Solemn instrumental music] A dome-like structure with six roads leading out of
it like spokes.
With something around it like columns, like a forum, like the forum on Caprica,
actually.
ELOSHA: The forum in the opera house in the city of the gods on Kobol.
This planet is Kobol.
[Solemn instrumental music intensifies] BILLY: Kobol like Kobol? ELOSHA: The
birthplace of mankind.
Where the gods and man lived in paradise.
Until the exodus of the 13 Tribes.
Madam President, what's going on? It's real.
The scriptures, the myths, the prophecies.
They're all real.
So say we all.
BALTAR: Hello, Lieutenant.
BOOMER: Hey, Doc.
This is a bad time, right? No.
I'm just cleaning my gun.
BOOMER: What's going on? I was going to ask you the same question.
BALTAR: Actually, I was looking for Lt.
Thrace.
But sometimes, it's good to talk these things over.
NO.
6: Deep down, she knows she's a Cylon.
But her conscious mind won't accept it.
Sometimes I have these dark thoughts.
- What kind of dark thoughts? - Her model is weak.
Always has been.
But in the end, she'll carry out her mission.
I don't know.
But I'm afraid I'm going to hurt someone.
I feel like I have to be stopped.
She can't be stopped.
She's a Cylon.
NO.
6: You can't help her, Gaius.
But you could probably sleep with her.
That's what you want, right? I'm not sure why Sometimes we must embrace that
which opens up for us.
Embrace? Life can be a curse as well as a blessing.
You will believe me when I tell you there are far worse things than death in
this world.
BOOMER: So you're saying BALTAR: No.
What I say is meaningless.
Listen to your heart.
Embrace that which you know to be the right decision.
[Solemn instrumental music] [Gun fires] You might be right.
This may be Kobol.
We should seriously consider permanent settlement on this planet.
The scriptures tell us that Kobol points the way to Earth.
Organise a ground survey team.
Three Raptors.
I want a complete survey of the ruins immediately.
APOLLO: Yes, sir.
NO.
6: You should go.
Remember what I said, Gaius? You don't want to be here when it happens.
When what happens? What would happen if I go? In fact, I think I'm going to
volunteer for the survey party.
Your presence won't be necessary, Doctor.
Thank you.
I'm the Vice President of the colony, selected in my own right.
And I feel that my presence on the planet will be necessary, Commander.
As your chief science advisor, I have to analyse the samples the team brings,
and it would be more efficient if I can gather the samples by myself.
Unless you have any objection, Madam President.
No objections.
Thank you.
We need to talk.
Sure.
You okay? BOOMER: What do you think? I think it's hard to imagine that you
forgot to check the chamber.
I didn't forget.
Sharon, what's going on? I know things haven't been so great lately, but I wake
up in the morning and I wonder who I am.
I wake up and wonder if I'm going to hurt someone.
Sharon, you need help.
Not from you.
You made that clear.
BOOMER: I'm on my own.
TYROL: No, you're not.
Thanks for coming out, Chief.
You're dismissed.
So according to the scriptures if we had the arrow of Apollo, we could take it
down to Kobol, and we could use it to open the tomb of Athena and find our way
to Earth.
I didn't know you were that religious.
Neither did I.
ROSLIN: Something wrong with that? ADAMA: No.
It's just new.
There is no Earth.
You understand that.
It would seem that we were wrong.
Commander, just because you and I don't know where it is it doesn't mean it
doesn't exist.
Madam President I am not trying to mock your faith, so please understand me.
These stories about Kobol, gods the arrow of Apollo they're just stories,
legends, myths.
Don't let it blind you to the reality that we face.
Reality is that the Cylon Raider has been successfully jump-tested.
Reality is that Cylon technology obviously outstrips our own.
And reality is there is a good chance the Raider can jump all the way back to
Caprica and retrieve that arrow and find our way to Earth.
ROSLIN: The real Earth.
ADAMA: The Raider's a military asset.
I won't use it to go chasing some mythical arrow.
I'm sorry.
HOT DOG: I say we find Kobol, count our blessings, and just stay there.
PILOT: But the sacred scrolls say that this could guide us to Earth.
Right? Okay.
Cut the chatter.
Raptors 2 and 3 on me.
FTL's spun up and ready? Cally, hold onto your lunch.
CRASHDOWN: Jump in ten nine, eight seven, six, five four, three two, one.
ECO: Jump complete, gentlemen.
Bring the nose down, we should see the planet directly ahead.
What the hell is that? Oh, my God! [Fast-paced instrumental music] Cartman! Get
us out of here! CARTMAN: We got a fire in the turbine.
Shutting it down! BALTAR: Put it down! CRASHDOWN: Out of the way! Come on!
CRASHDOWN: Get out of the seat, Doc! TYROL: Everybody hang on! TYROL: Can you
jump us out? No, the out drive's been hit.
TYROL: Socinus, get on the horn and tell Raptor 2 to jump back to Galactica!
Right now! Jump back to Galactica! [Screaming] Jump back to Galactica, over.
You are ordered to jump back to Galactica.
[Fast-paced instrumental music continues] Whenever they're within proximity of
one another they send off a short IFF burst.
Essentially, they are Cylon transponders programmed to identify themselves to
any other Cylon transponder.
- Damn nice work, Lieutenant.
- That's very good.
Now that we know what they are, I want to test one in the Raider.
DUALLA: Draidus contact.
Raptor 275, sir.
Back early.
Something's wrong.
TYROL: What the hell are you doing? BALTAR: Oh, God! TYROL: Hang on! BALTAR:
God! Oh, my God! TYROL: Do it! CRASHDOWN: Everybody hit the deck! [Screaming]
TYROL: I can't see! TYROL: Pull it up! Watch the hill! CRASHDOWN: Thanks for
watching! How many people did we lose? APOLLO: Ten souls aboard Raptor 3.
Raptor 1, last visual contact was seen under power flight heading toward the
surface.
We need a way to take out the base ship before we can attempt a rescue.
TIGH: Starbuck's working on a plan using the captured Raider to get a nuke into
the base ship.
- The Raider? - When did this happen? TIGH: About 19 minutes ago.
She said she's working on the details and we'll have a report at 1400.
ADAMA: Go talk to Starbuck right away.
APOLLO: My pleasure.
ADAMA: And report back to me.
APOLLO: Yes, sir.
Is there something to worry about, Madam President? Why do you ask that? - That
look on your face.
- Not now.
STARBUCK: Take that out.
The Chief said we need it, but I don't.
APOLLO: Lt.
Thrace, attention! I gave you a command.
You will obey it.
Attention! You do not take your harebrained ideas to the XO without going
through me first.
Do you understand? Yes, sir.
At ease.
So what's the plan? I'm putting an autopilot in the Raider.
Jump him to the base ship.
Engage the autopilot, punch out.
Get picked up by a Raptor.
STARBUCK: The Raider heads to the base ship.
Except the transponder allows the Raider to approach.
Nuke goes off.
Boom, sir.
Might work.
Might get you killed.
Would you miss me, sir? I need every pilot I have.
Even the screw-ups.
Captain.
I'm really sorry.
BILLY: If you do this, it could threaten everything we've accomplished.
It may bring down the government and you don't have a right to risk that for a
Go on.
For a drug-induced vision of prophecy.
I am well aware of that.
But it would seem that the gods have a different plan.
ROSLIN: Would you please get me Lt.
Thrace? Can I get you some more water? Yes.
Thanks.
You can't be serious.
ROSLIN: All of this has happened before and will happen again.
That Cylon you interrogated, he quoted that bit of scripture.
He also said that we would find Kobol and Kobol would show us the way, did he
not? Yes, he did.
ROSLIN: We have found Kobol.
Do you believe in the gods, Lieutenant? Not that it's any of your business,
but, yes, I believe.
Lieutenant, I am not trying to put you on the defensive I would like you to
think this through with me.
If you believe in the gods then you believe in the cycle of time that we are
all playing our parts in a story that is told again and again and again
throughout eternity.
That's the way I was raised.
But that doesn't mean that my part in the story is to go off on some crazy-ass
mission against orders.
May I tell you the part of the story that it would seem I am playing? I am
dying.
- What? - I have terminal breast cancer.
I have six months at the outside to live, and I have only told three people so
I'd appreciate it if you kept it to yourself.
Of course.
Are you saying that you are The scripture tells us a dying leader lead humanity
to the promised land.
If you go back to Caprica and bring me the arrow I will show us the way.
This is crazy.
People keep using that word.
It is crazy.
Perhaps.
That doesn't mean it isn't true.
And it may be our only chance.
Our only chance to find Earth.
The old man is our last chance to find Earth.
He knows where it is.
He said so.
You were there.
The location is a secret.
But he is going to take us there.
[Sombre instrumental music] Commander Adama has no idea where Earth is.
He never did.
He made it up in order to give people hope.
- You're lying.
- Go ask him.
I will.
[Sombre instrumental music continues] STARBUCK: I need one more in-flight test
for the autopilot and NAV systems before I jump for Kobol.
ADAMA: Right.
Can I ask you a question, boss? Shoot.
How much longer till we reach Earth? It's hard to say.
You got a guess? You know I don't like to guess.
Are we getting closer? I'm sure we are.
ADAMA: Good luck on the next test.
Apollo.
Starbuck.
I'm ready over here.
Okay, Starbuck.
The board is green.
Copy that.
Powering up for the autopilot test.
This is Starbuck, request permission to speak with Galactica actual.
Starbuck wants to speak to you, sir.
She's on a scrambled channel.
Go ahead.
I believed you.
Believed in Earth.
What are you doing, Starbuck? Bringing home the CAG, sir.
We can talk about this.
No, I don't think so.
I want you to remember one thing.
I do not regret anything that I did.
Be sure that whatever you're going to do, you don't regret it later.
Do you understand me? [lntense instrumental music] I guess we'll find out.
Commander, she's spinning up the Raider's FTL drive.
TIGH: What? This is an autopilot test, what the hell is she doing? What are you
doing, Kara? Galactica.
Apollo.
She just jumped away.
Repeat.
Starbuck and the Raider just jumped away.
She wasn't scheduled for a jump test.
Where the hell did she go? [Sombre instrumental music] Home.
[Theme music]
