Battlestar Galactica  >  Season 1  >  Colonial Day

Battlestar Galactica s01e11 Episode Script

Colonial Day

NARRATOR: Previously on Battlestar Galactica.
[Dramatic instrumental music] [Gunshot] [No.
6 gasps] HELO: What the hell is going on? You killed her.
We gotta go.
Right now.
BILLY: That's Tom Zarek.
DUALLA: The terrorist? BILLY: He's a prisoner of conscience.
DUALLA: He's a butcher.
He blew up a government building, there is no excuse for that.
I thought you said you respected me.
That was before you resorted to violence and hostage-taking.
ZAREK: I demand the immediate resignation of Laura Roslin and her ministers.
I demand free and open elections to choose a new leadership.
If you let the rest of these hostages go, we will leave this ship in your
hands.
McMANUS: Got it? MAN: Test.
There.
McMANUS: Are we on? MAN: Frack, we're on.
Go.
McMANUS: Live from Cloud Nine, the most luxurious ship in the fleet it's The
Colonial Gang.
It's a new talk show that brings you the inside scoop on the fleet.
I'm James McManus, formerly of the Caprica Times.
With me are two of the only remaining legitimate journalists left.
Playa Palacios, veteran commentator for the Picon Star Tribune.
Welcome.
And my wingman, Sekou Hamilton, former editor of the Aerilon Gazette.
McMANUS: [On radio] As most people know Cloud Nine was damaged during a Cylon
attack and had to be evacuated.
With repairs now complete, President Roslin has picked it as the site for an
historic gathering.
It's the first meeting of the Interim Quorum of 12 which will coincide with
Colonial Day the 52nd anniversary of the signing of the Articles of
Colonisation.
Playa, why don't you weigh in? Laura Roslin should be applauded for restoring
the system of checks and balances.
McMANUS: Every delegate chosen so far has been a Roslin crony.
It's a puppet Quorum, okay? That will rubber-stamp every edict this power-mad
schoolteacher will try How can you say that when half the Quorum hasn't even
been selected? McMANUS: I predict every one of them will be a Roslin lackey
hand-picked by the power behind the throne, Presidential Advisor, Wallace Gray.
Don't you see, Gray orchestrated this whole publicity stunt.
Come on, Jim.
Wallace Gray is no prince of darkness.
I disagree.
He's helped Roslin regulate the internal economy made sure vital food and
medical supplies were fairly distributed He's a gasbag who's made a fortune
through deals Quorum members have profited from.
ROSLIN: Freedom of the press.
McMANUS: As we speak Madam President, the fatuous gasbag would like 5 minutes
of your time.
Wally.
ROSLIN: How does it feel to be a celebrity? GRAY: Well, I love it.
They'll probably be calling me a fascist next.
No, I'm the fascist.
You stick with being the gasbag.
Madam President, excuse me, you're going to want to hear this.
McMANUS: Sagittaron have chosen their delegate for the Interim Quorum of 12.
Who would've guessed it? Tom Zarek.
- Oh, my gods.
- He's got quite a following out there.
- I should have seen this coming.
- He's a terrorist.
Who are they kidding? McMANUS: a ruthless terrorist.
HAMILTON: Tom Zarek incited a prison riot that resulted in kidnapping,
attempted rape.
He blew up a government building and now he's gonna sit on the Quorum of 12?
McMANUS: Wrong.
The government trumped up charges to discredit a man who's dedicated his life
for the disenfranchised.
Yes? Just a moment.
Commander Adama.
Why am I not surprised? ROSLIN: Hello, Commander.
ADAMA: Are you listening to this? - Indeed.
- Can't allow a terrorist to sit in government.
ROSLIN: My hands are tied.
I don't want to turn him into a martyr.
Sagittaron law allows a prisoner to regain his citizenship once he's served his
time.
Tom Zarek represents a danger to the entire fleet.
I can bar him from travelling to Cloud Nine on that basis alone.
I perfectly understand the threat Tom Zarek represents.
But the last thing I need is for you to start acting like my own personal goon
squad.
We need to let this play out.
Thank you.
McMANUS: [On radio] Hold onto your shorts.
There's another story.
We're getting a live feed from the Astral Queen.
Tom Zarek is about to make a statement.
ZAREK: Citizens of the 12 Colonies, I am humbled and moved by this great
honour.
I will be a voice for those who have gone too long unheard by a government that
serves only the privileged and the powerful that turns a blind eye to the needs
of the weak and the poor.
But Roslin and her confederates will no longer be able to ignore us.
ZAREK: [On radio] People of the fleet, look up.
The winds of change are blowing.
A new era is about to dawn.
[Theme music] Hey, Doc.
Lt.
Thrace, to what do I owe this honour? Our shuttle leaves for Cloud Nine at
05:12 tomorrow, so don't be late.
"Our" shuttle? A surprise getaway? Just the two of you? - I'm going to be
handling your security.
- Please don't touch that.
Thank you.
BALTAR: Security for what? STARBUCK: You haven't heard? It's all over talk
wireless.
When would I have the chance to listen to talk wireless? I have 60 years of
work in front of me.
Anyway, talk wireless is just an excuse for lowbrow rabble-rousing.
You've been selected as Caprica's delegate to the Quorum of 12.
Me? Is this some kind of joke? Guess you got the super-genius vote.
No accounting for taste.
STARBUCK: Congratulations, Doctor.
BALTAR: Thank you.
Politics is the only thing more boring than blood samples.
All those interminable speeches.
All that dreary pomp.
Parties full of young women drawn to men of power.
[Climactic instrumental music] But when the people call, you must serve.
APOLLO: I can't remember the last time I felt the sunlight on my face.
Sure feels good.
Almost like the real thing.
[Birds chirping] STARBUCK: They could've done a better job with the horizon,
though.
Security's going to be a bitch.
A thousand different places for a sniper to hide.
How many people are we dealing with? APOLLO: Five hundred plus.
APOLLO: Each colony's sending a delegation of leading citizens.
Great.
Herds of lookie-loos, any one of whom could be a Cylon.
APOLLO: Toasters aren't our only problem.
Don't you pay any attention to politics? - No.
- A lot of unrest out there.
So why is Roslin insisting on letting so many people come? I guess she thinks
it's important to them to be able to observe how their government works.
So basically, she's already running for re-election.
APOLLO: No, Kara.
[Apollo screaming] APOLLO: Kara, give me that.
[Both laughing heartily] [Suspenseful instrumental music] SECURITY AGENT: Thank
you, sir.
Enjoy your day.
PALACIOS: The atmosphere is electric as Quorum members arrive with their
delegations.
I'm outside the Cloud Nine Ballroom where the reception of the new Quorum of 12
will take place.
The question is, will President Roslin shake the hand of the man many still
regard as a terrorist or will she snub him, and by extension, all the people of
Sagittaron? Col.
Tigh.
- My wife Ellen.
- Welcome aboard.
Kill me now.
[Ellen clears throat] Col.
Tigh.
[Suspenseful instrumental music continues] APOLLO: Starbuck, Apollo.
Zarek's here.
STARBUCK: Copy.
STARBUCK: Don't worry.
This guy's mine the second he makes a wrong move.
APOLLO: [On wireless] Yeah? Well, you'll have to beat me to him.
Murderer.
You don't belong here, Zarek.
Go back.
GRIMES: What did you say? He's not a murderer, he's a freedom fighter.
GRIMES: All right? APOLLO: Excuse me.
- May I see your security pass, sir? - Not a problem.
I'm a citizen of Sagittaron.
I've got every legal right to be here.
Your rights don't extend to roughing people up.
Lay a hand on anyone else and you'll be getting to know Galactica's brig.
APOLLO: Well, everything's in order.
Enjoy your stay on Cloud Nine.
Oh, I will.
[Tense instrumental music] ZAREK: Tom Zarek.
TIGH: Col.
Tigh, Battlestar Galactica.
I see.
My wife.
- Does she have a name? - Ellen.
ZAREK: Call me Tom.
I don't like to stand on ceremony.
I'm the same way.
All this pretension makes me sick.
You're holding up the line.
Thank you for making me feel welcome, Ellen.
I hope to see you again.
Why did you do that? To get our picture on the front page of every newsletter
and photo service in the fleet.
I don't need my picture taken with a terrorist.
Wake up, Saul.
Look at these cameras.
[Ellen giggles pretentiously] Roslin's the past, Zarek's the future.
A blind man can see that.
ZAREK: Madam President.
ROSLIN: Mr.
Zarek.
If I were to offer you my hand in friendship would you take it? Well, there's
only one way to find out.
[Cameras clicking] [Crowd chattering] ZAREK: That was nicely played.
ROSLIN: Thank you.
Just remember, I'm not your enemy, Madam President.
ROSLIN: And I know today's agenda is rather large but I think that if you'll
look at the scheduled meetings you'll see that they concern issues vital to the
fleet.
In some cases, existing policies regarding matters such as the distribution of
medical supplies NO.
6: You're missing an intriguing opportunity.
Playa's not wearing any underwear.
Don't be absurd.
[Suspenseful instrumental music] Really? She's been eyeing you all afternoon.
She's certainly human.
You're not jealous? NO.
6: Love isn't about sex, Gaius.
That's an enlightened point of view.
I've been thinking as far as I'm concerned you can have any woman you want.
But always remember I have your heart.
Yes.
Of course you do.
I can always rip it out of your chest if I need to.
[Baltar coughs] ROSLIN: So if there are no objections the Chair will entertain
motions to accept today's agenda as proposed.
I have an objection.
[People murmuring] The chair recognises Sagittaron.
All the items on your agenda are important, I agree.
Ration distribution, education, medical services, all very important.
But I'm frankly shocked to discover the most critical issue of all is nowhere
to be found.
Really? Well, perhaps Mr.
Zarek could enlighten us? The election of a vice-president.
lf, gods forbid, anything should happen to you, Madam President we have no
designated successor.
The civilian branch of our government would be paralysed leaving the door wide
open for a military dictatorship.
Sagittaron moves that the first item on the Quorum's agenda should be
nominations for vice-president.
[Tense instrumental music] Second.
- Second.
- Second.
[People murmuring] Caprica seconds for various reasons which are far too
obvious and numerous to go into right now.
But certainly, I think we can all agree that it'd be a good idea to have a
successor.
The motion has been moved and seconded.
All those in favour of opening nominations for the vice-presidency, say aye.
ALL: Aye.
Aye.
ROSLIN: The ayes have it.
The floor is now open for nominations.
The chair recognises Virgon.
Now, there is only one man here who is willing to work for the betterment of
people in this fleet.
When I asked for his help he sent a crew to fix the air filtration system on my
ship and, hell, they were finished and gone while I was still waiting for the
President's office to return my call.
I nominate Tom Zarek.
Thanks.
[All murmuring] [Gravel pounding] Is there a second? Gemenon seconds the
nomination.
The nomination of Tom Zarek for the vice-presidency has been accepted.
[All applauding] The Chair will remain open for 72 hours for nominations.
The session is now adjourned.
[lntense instrumental music] ROSLIN: Thomas Zarek is not going to be my
vice-president.
Six months until the presidential election.
We could've handpicked a candidate.
It didn't shock me when Bagot nominated him.
- But Porter, that was surprising.
- Not really.
The Gemenon ships use more water per capita than any other ship.
She wanted more rations, I said no.
Zarek may have made some friends in the last few weeks but there are still
plenty who hate him.
Don't underestimate Zarek.
He's charismatic and knows what buttons to push.
Frankly, Madam President, I am concerned about the security aboard Cloud Nine.
ROSLIN: I want you leaning forward on this, Captain.
ROSLIN: If they even sneeze, they better have a handkerchief.
Understood.
We need a candidate.
Someone who will quickly win the delegates' support.
An established name.
I'm not a politician.
ROSLIN: But you know how to get things done.
You've kept this fleet functioning all this time.
No.
Thanks, but I can't allow Tom Zarek to be one heartbeat away from the
presidency, Wally.
ROSLIN: I need you.
You've got me, Madam President.
How can you reassure people that you're looking out for their interests as
opposed to the rehabilitation of Tom Zarek? That's a great question, Playa.
This is how I see it.
We're facing a situation so unique, so specific that I believe we need not only
new leadership but a whole new way of thinking.
Like blowing up a building or two? ZAREK: If things weren't so serious, I'd say
that was funny.
Look, there's no economy.
There's no market.
No industry.
No capital.
Money is worthless.
And yet, we're all held hostage by the idea of the way things used to be.
ZAREK: Look where we are.
ZAREK: This man wakes up every morning tugs on his boots and goes to work in
this garden.
ZAREK: [On radio] Why? Because it's his job? What job? He labours, but he gets
no benefit from his labour.
He's not the only one.
Many of us are just still going through the motions of our old lives.
The lawyers still act like lawyers, but they have no clients.
[On radio] Businessmen still act like businessmen, but have no business.
President Roslin and her policies are all about holding on to a fantasy.
[On radio] If we want to survive, we need to completely restructure our lives.
We need to think about the community of citizens.
The group, not the individual.
We need to completely free ourselves of the past and operate as a collective.
You're not interested in the citizens.
You just want power.
Turn that crap off.
I was listening to that broadcast.
APOLLO: You again? That's a shame.
They want to hear Mr.
Zarek speak, too.
Don't you, buddy? See? He wants to hear Mr.
Zarek.
How about you? You want to hear what Mr.
Zarek has to say? I don't mind one way or the other.
Well, I take that as a yes.
So turn it on.
- Now.
- Leave it.
Mr.
Zarek is a representative of the people and we are the people.
Well, you're people.
Sort of.
GRIMES: You know, I don't like your tone, flyboy so why don't you just move
along out of here and go enjoy the imitation weather? I'd be happy to, after
you leave.
[Tense instrumental music] Which is now.
GRIMES: Okay.
Don't want no trouble.
[Apollo grunts] STARBUCK: What the hell.
[Tense instrumental music intensifies] [Both grunting] [Starbuck grunting]
[Groaning and grunting] [Both grunting] STARBUCK: There's a gun.
[Apollo groaning in pain] Starbuck.
STARBUCK: Incoming.
[Starbuck grunts] [Both exclaiming] APOLLO: Are you looking for this? [Gun
cocking] [Starbuck panting heavily] The Telamon Building's still standing.
That's Delphi, all right.
Now, all we have to do is wait until dark infiltrate the most heavily fortified
military hub on this planet hope the Cylons haven't completely wasted the
spaceport steal a ship, locate Galactica and fly to her without getting shot to
hell.
- Is that all? - Yeah.
[Thunder rumbling] I guess we can relax until dark.
Might as well make ourselves comfortable.
BOOMER: You hungry? HELO: No, not right now.
HELO: Your stomach's feeling better? BOOMER: Starving.
I'm trying to make sense out of the two women we saw with the Cylons.
And? I can't fathom why anybody would wanna help the toasters.
And they just happened to be twins? That's too weird.
You got a better explanation? [Sober instrumental music] You think the Cylons
could be messing with human DNA? HELO: Cloning people or something? BOOMER:
Could be.
That would explain how they took us by surprise.
They had these replicated humans infiltrating the colonies laying the
groundwork for the surprise attack.
You know, if they were human clones that means they're capable of complex
emotions, maybe even love.
Maybe they were misguided in the way that they were indoctrinated.
Whatever they are, they're not human.
No human could do the things they've done.
Killed billions of innocent people.
They've got to be fracking Cylons, just like the rest of them.
Why do you have a summit itinerary? Why circle every public appearance by
President Roslin? [Thudding] It's not mine.
Some stranger wandered down the hall, picked the lock to your room and left
this? False-bottom with anechoic coating to absorb x-rays.
[Screaming] Ceramic stealth gun.
You sure went through a lot of trouble to get that weapon onboard.
I carry a lot of money.
I need protection.
APOLLO: Right.
[Screaming] The money's worthless.
Your friend Zarek pointed that out.
I don't even know Zarek.
Your pal Grimes says different.
He gave you up.
You're bluffing.
You haven't got anything.
We don't need anything, Valance.
Because this isn't a trial.
This is just you and us in this room.
STARBUCK: Like Zarek pointed out, we're living in a whole new world.
No due process.
This is your courtroom.
And that would make us your executioners.
STARBUCK: So you might want to cooperate, or else you're going out an air lock.
Because that's what we do to traitors.
VALANCE: Look, I I just came over here for the booze and the food.
That's it.
You know what? Frack you! APOLLO: We put all the heat on Valance we could but
can't tie him to Zarek.
I know Zarek's behind this.
Keep working on Valance.
We will.
To be safe, I think you should send the Sagittaron delegation back.
Can't.
Violates their civil rights, plays right into Zarek's hands.
He could have another shooter on Cloud Nine and if Zarek wins the vote, he's
more than capable of ordering your assassination and ascending to the
presidency.
Zarek's not going to win because I'm not going to let him.
Meanwhile, keep Zarek under surveillance, tap his phones, bug his room.
If you find anything that remotely connects Zarek to Valance, shut him down.
The domestic policies we've been talking about over the last little while such
as employment, housing and education Latest vote count: seven for Gray, five
for Zarek.
We're slipping.
He was four an hour ago.
- Zarek must be making promises.
- Picon flipped.
ROSLIN: [Whispering] We've got to hold the colonies till they vote tomorrow.
GRAY: On Page 33 of my mission statement I lay out a 16-point educational
programme that the President and I have developed.
Individuals with four-year college degrees will be eligible.
Hi.
How are you doing? Remember me? We got Valance.
And you're next.
[Ominous instrumental music] GRAY: Health care, it's one thing to talk ZAREK:
Can I get you something? ELLEN: So you work here now? Why should I ask the
bartender to get me a drink? - What's in it for him? - A big tip.
What would he spend on? So, are you worried about Wallace Gray? I hear he's
ahead in the vote count.
Whatever the people want is fine by me.
Everyone has an agenda.
I know I do.
ZAREK: And what would that be? The same as yours, Tom.
Me.
Myself.
And I.
[Light instrumental music playing] You are clearly a well-connected,
well-informed woman.
ELLEN: Wife of the XO.
For whatever that's worth.
Quite a bit.
Now and in the future.
That's what I'm interested in, Tom.
My place and my husband's place in the future.
Okay.
I'm looking for a friend of mine.
His name is Valance.
[Sinister instrumental music] How the hell did this happen? We've got to get to
the President.
McMANUS: [On radio] We're here with Dr.
Gaius Baltar, representative of Caprica.
Dr.
Baltar, I had one question.
Is President Roslin's political career terminal or is there hope of
resuscitating it? BALTAR: Laura Roslin's political career is very much alive
and to underestimate her would be a very serious mistake.
- You miss the limelight, don't you, Gaius? - Yes, I have.
- You have what, Dr.
Baltar? - Nothing.
You were saying? You seriously believe that this school teacher is able to
handle the job of presidency? His wrists were slashed with broken glass from
the room.
- So was it suicide or was it murder? - It was no suicide.
- Zarek had him killed.
- lf only we could prove that.
How'd they get past the Marine Guards? APOLLO: Through the vent.
BALTAR: [On radio] I'm glad to hear it because all of us have had teachers who
made an impact on our lives.
History is full of examples of leaders who have come from the most humble
beginnings and have risen to meet the challenge posed by cataclysmic events.
APOLLO: How many people knew where Valance was being held? STARBUCK: Just the
people in this room plus two Marines.
BALTAR: criticise Roslin and the tough decisions she has to make every day.
Especially, if you're someone like Tom Zarek who's never shouldered any real
responsibility in your life.
To be fair to Tom, he's been in prison for the last 20 years.
And now that he's had a drastic personality makeover he's posing like he's the
saviour to all your ills.
I think you all have a short memory.
Well, someone talked.
And now we have no assassin, no evidence of a plot no check on Zarek, no
nothing.
If he can get to Valance, he can get to anyone.
Madam President, he will definitely try and take a shot at you now.
Only if he wins the vote.
What I have to say is, we must survive.
[On radio] And we will survive.
And we will do so through the values that have made our colonies great.
Courage.
Truth.
Justice.
Liberty.
With a firm and deep resolve to make tomorrow better.
Not just for ourselves, but for our children.
[All applauding] Madam President, I still worry the vote may be trending
against you.
ROSLIN: Yes, it is.
But I'm going to win this thing.
And Tom Zarek is going back to his prison ship where he belongs.
ROSLIN: But first I have two very unpleasant duties to perform.
I need a shuttle to Cloud Nine.
What am I supposed to say? - Health reasons.
- Oh, right, fine.
Health reasons.
You know, all those years I watched you working with Adar.
You were always so quiet, so polite so dignified.
I never thought you'd fit in with the bare-knuckled, backstabbing politicians.
I guess I was wrong.
All clear.
Dr.
Baltar? Are you in here? [Toilet flushing] BALTAR: Madam President? I heard you
on the wireless.
You were very articulate, quite engaging.
Oh, thank you.
That's very encouraging.
Yeah, I was just trying to do my bit as the elected representative of Caprica.
Besides, I'm beginning to get a real feel for politics.
So I take it you're not voting for Mr.
Zarek? A man who uses his intelligence and resources to blow up buildings
doesn't get my vote, no.
No, I'm voting for your man Gray.
He's really great.
He is great, which is why he's got my vote.
ROSLIN: Unfortunately Mr.
Gray dropped out of the race.
- Then who do you want me to vote for? - I was thinking you.
Me? - Look - Doctor, let's cut to the chase.
ROSLIN: You're a very popular man these days.
ROSLIN: I would be fortunate to have your intellect and your popularity right
by my side.
Under those circumstances, I accept.
BALTAR: Thank you, Madam President.
ROSLIN: Thank you.
Wow.
What are you going to do now? Now I'm going to give you an exclusive.
BALTAR: After you.
So what are we supposed to do? Sit on our hands and watch her get killed?
Zarek's too smart to take another shot at the President during the summit.
If he wins the vote, he can take her out later when everyone's forgotten about
Valance.
He'll just bide his time to find a better opportunity.
That's great.
Anyway, she says she's not going to lose the vote.
She says a lot of things.
Don't you think you should wash that? STARBUCK: I did.
APOLLO: Like when, a month ago? - Do you have a problem with my hygiene? - You
have hygiene? I clean up good sometimes, all right? Well, let me know when it's
one of those times.
Tauron, Gaius Baltar.
The surprises just keep on coming.
A number of the Quorum delegates have now shifted their support to the
scientific genius a man who is credited with saving the fleet on numerous
occasions.
At this point, Jim, it is anyone's guess as to who's going to win, but my money
is on Gaius.
Dr.
Baltar.
Aquaria, Thomas Zarek.
[Tense instrumental music] Aerilon: Tom Zarek.
PALACIOS: The vote is now six-five in favour of Tom Zarek.
The next vote will determine our new vice-president.
If Zarek gets it, he wins.
In the event of a tie, the President will cast the deciding vote.
[Tense instrumental music intensifies] [All cheering] Citizens I give you your
new vice-president, Dr.
Gaius Baltar.
[Upbeat jazzy instrumental music playing] [All applauding] The perks of power,
Mr.
Vice-President.
We're going to do great things together.
Good.
It's difficult to fathom.
I never aspired to power.
Of course you didn't, Gaius.
But someone had to step up.
- Well, after what Laura told me - Laura? BALTAR: Yeah, we're on a first name
basis now.
Now look, I think the people need me.
Excuse us.
[Music continues playing] So that bum knee of yours is looking pretty good.
And the other one's not too bad either.
Lee, if you want to ask me to dance, just ask.
You want to dance? Me in a dress is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
- Madam President.
- Mr.
Zarek.
Oh, don't worry, I won't be kissing you today.
That's a shame.
I shaved very closely in anticipation of being smacked by you.
That was very nicely played.
Again.
But there's still a presidential election in six months.
- I'll see you then.
- I have no doubt.
Oh, one thing you should know.
I didn't kill Valance.
I wonder who did? [All applauding] Madam President, good evening.
I thought you hated these things.
It's Colonial Day.
Where else would I be? I'm a patriot.
You really are, aren't you? ADAMA: Dr.
Baltar.
Interesting choice.
I figured, the devil you know.
Politics.
As exciting as war.
ADAMA: Definitely as dangerous.
Though in war you only get killed once.
In politics, it can happen over and over.
You're still standing.
So are you.
And I can dance.
[Music continues playing] - I have a surprise for you.
- Should I be worried? [Giggling mischievously] Not unless you consider a day
in a luxury suite aboard the Rising Star as something to be worried about.
What? How did you swing that? I have my ways.
[Ellen giggles] [Ellen exclaims contentedly] What you need to do is figure out
a way to get slave-driving Bill to give you the day off.
TIGH: [Chuckling] Yeah.
And while we're there, we might want to talk to a few people - about your
future.
- What? Later, my love.
It can all wait until later.
[Ominous instrumental music] Any second now.
[Both panting] If we get caught If anything happens You don't have to say
anything.
I know.
We're going to make it, Sharon.
Okay? [Ship humming] Okay.
Go.
[Tense instrumental music] [Solemn instrumental music] [Mysterious instrumental
music] [Muffled speech] [Suspenseful instrumental music] [Gunshots] [Gripping
instrumental music] [Gunshot] Sharon? We're still alive.
Why nobody else? You never get tired.
Trust me.
Helo, come with me.
Helo.
Helo.
[Exclaiming in despair] [Theme music]
